refibrillation managed by emt-ds : incidence and outcome without paramedic back-up . some patients converted from ventricular fibrillation to organized rhythms by defibrillation-trained ambulance technicians ( emt-ds ) will refibrillate before hospital arrival . the authors analyzed 271 cases of ventricular fibrillation managed by emt-ds working without paramedic back-up . of 111 patients initially converted to organized rhythms , 19 ( 17 % ) refibrillated , 11 ( 58 % ) of whom were reconverted to perfusing rhythms , including nine of 11 ( 82 % ) who had spontaneous pulses prior to refibrillation . among patients initially converted to organized rhythms , hospital admission rates were lower for patients who refibrillated than for patients who did not ( 53 % versus 76 % , p = ns ) , although discharge rates were virtually identical ( 37 % and 35 % , respectively ) . scene-to-hospital transport times were not predictively associated with either the frequency of refibrillation or patient outcome . defibrillation-trained emts can effectively manage refibrillation with additional shocks and are not at a significant disadvantage when paramedic back-up is not available . 
tricyclic antidepressant overdose : emergency department findings as predictors of clinical course . there is controversy regarding the appropriate utilization of health care resources in the management of tricyclic antidepressant overdosage . antidepressant overdose patients presenting to the emergency department ( ed ) are routinely admitted to intensive care units , but only a small proportion develop cardiac arrhythmias or other complications requiring such an environment . the authors reviewed the findings in 165 patients presenting to an ed with antidepressant overdose . they found that major manifestations of toxicity on ed evaluation ( altered mental status , seizures , arrhythmias , and conduction defects ) were commonly associated with a complicated hospital course . patients with the isolated findings of sinus tachycardia or qtc prolongation had no complications . no patient experienced a serious toxic event without major evidence of toxicity on ed evaluation and continued evidence of toxicity during the hospital course . these data support the concept that proper ed evaluation can identify a large body of patients with trivial ingestions who may not require hospital observation . 
transconjunctival oxygen monitoring as a predictor of hypoxemia during helicopter transport . as the use of helicopters for air transport of critically ill patients increases , the availability of monitoring devices for physiological parameters during flight becomes important . it has long been known that arterial po2 ( pao2 ) decreases during unsupplemented , non-pressurized flight . in this study , the authors examined the use of the transconjunctival oxygen ( cjo2 ) monitor for assessing the adequacy of arterial oxygenation during helicopter flight in four healthy volunteers . arterial pao2 as measured by conventional blood gas analysis was compared with cjo2 at ground level , 5 , 000 feet , and 10 , 000 feet altitude . mean pao2 dropped significantly from 93.5 to 81.5 to 58.5 mm hg , respectively ( p less than 0.001 , analysis of variance with repeated measures ) . mean cjo2 also decreased significantly from 63.8 to 52.0 to 34.8 mm hg , respectively ( p less than 0.001 , analysis of variance with repeated measures ) . within individual subjects , cjo2 was an accurate predictor of pao2 ( p less than 0.001 , multiple regression analysis ) . the relationship between cjo2 and pao2 was linear with a regression coefficient of 1.147 . the authors conclude that the transconjunctival o2 monitor may be useful for monitoring the adequacy of arterial oxygenation during helicopter flight in hemodynamically stable patients . the results of study also support the use of supplemental oxygen in all patients subjected to helicopter transport . 
serum glucose changes after administration of 50 % dextrose solution : pre- and in-hospital calculations . a prospective clinical trial was conducted to estimate the rise in serum glucose level after an intravenous bolus of 50 ml of 50 % dextrose solution ( d-50 ) in the emergency department setting . fifty one subjects with altered levels of consciousness were studied . of these , 23 patients were known diabetics , and 28 were not diabetic . the change in glucose level for the total study group ranged from a low of 37 mg / dl to a high of 370 mg / dl , with a mean of 166 + / - 77 mg / dl . the mean for the diabetic and non-diabetic groups were 177 + / - 80 mg / dl and 154 + / - 75 mg / dl . these results suggest that serum glucose levels cannot be quantitatively predicted after a single intravenous bolus of d-50 . 
nasogastric intubation : morbidity in an asymptomatic patient . an unusual case of a misdirected nasogastric tube is described . an elderly woman was brought to an emergency department following intentional drug overdose . initially unrecognized errant placement of a large-bore nasogastric tube resulted in tension pneumothorax , pneumonia , and subsequent death . pertinent medical literature is reviewed , clinical considerations for the elderly patient are discussed , and suggestions for proper nasogastric tube placement are offered . 
massive transfusion without major complications after trauma . a case of massive degloving injury of the trunk , with open pelvic fracture , and evisceration of abdominal contents from blunt trauma is presented . the most significant aspect of this case was the transfusion of 173 units of packed cells and 176 units of fresh frozen plasma in the first thirty hours . the patient ultimately recovered and returned to work . 
acute carbon monoxide poisoning during pregnancy . the course of a pregnant patient at term who was acutely exposed to carbon monoxide is described . a review of the fetal-maternal carboxyhemoglobin relationships and the differences in fetal oxyhemoglobin physiology are used to explain the recommendation that pregnant women with carbon monoxide poisoning should receive 100 % oxygen therapy for up to five times longer than is otherwise necessary . the role of hyperbaric oxygen therapy is considered . 
intraosseous infusion of phenytoin . in the critically ill child , administration of fluids and medications via the intraosseous route often proves life-saving . the authors describe the case of a child with status epilepticus in whom phenytoin was administered via the intraosseous route , and seizure resolution and therapeutic serum levels were achieved . intraosseous drug administration should be reserved for the rare critically ill child in whom vascular access proves impossible . 
boerhaave 's syndrome : an elusive diagnosis . boerhaave 's syndrome represents a diagnostic dilemma for the emergency physician . the prognosis of this truly life-threatening emergency is darkened by any significant diagnostic delay . unfortunately , classic or expected symptoms and signs are frequently absent at presentation , a circumstance that leads to frequent misdiagnosis . two cases of boerhaave 's syndrome with " atypical " clinical presentations are reviewed and discussed . it is clear that boerhaave 's syndrome should always be suspected in the evaluation of any sudden chest , abdominal , or back pain associated with emesis . however , emphasis should be placed on the fact that this entity may occur without emesis . the chest radiograph is the most helpful diagnostic aid . undoubtedly , maintenance of a high degree of suspicion by the emergency physician for boerhaave 's syndrome will lead consistently to earlier diagnosis , and subsequent aggressive intervention should result in considerable reduction in rates of both morbidity and mortality . 
cases in electrocardiography . 
intraosseous infusions : a usable technique . intraosseous infusions were widely used in pediatric patients during the 1930s and 1940s . recent reports have re-introduced this concept and confirmed its safety and ready accessability for fluid and drug administration . however , these reports have not addressed the difficulties encountered during insertion of the intraosseous needle . spinal needles , standard metal intravenous ( iv ) needles , and bone marrow biopsy needles have been suggested for intraosseous infusion . these needles were tested for ease of insertion on a pediatric cadaver leg . the site for needle placement was also evaluated during the study . it was found that the 13-gauge kormed / jamshidi disposable bone marrow / aspiration needle was the easiest to insert and did not plug with bone or tissue during insertion . an area proximal to the medial malleolus was found to provide a stable , relatively flat , and easily penetrable location for needle placement . this method was successfully utilized in ten pediatric and five adult patients . intraosseous needle placement is a safe , rapid method to gain access to the venous circulation . by utilizing these techniques , a stable , usable fluid line can be established in even the most dehydrated pediatric patients . 
intravenous hydrocarbon abuse . the case of a man who injected turpentine intravenously in an attempt to kill himself is reported . the patient developed immediate pulmonary edema and hypoxia , followed later by cellulitis at the site of injection . although only one death to date has been attributed to this form of chemical abuse , extensive local reactions , pulmonary involvement , central nervous system depression , and febrile reactions should be anticipated , and such patients should be admitted to the hospital . patients should be observed for local reactions and myonecrosis around the site of injection , especially as these occur 12-24 hours later . 
thallium poisoning in cocaine abusers . the users of illicit drugs is endangered by both unpredictable concentrations of the drugs and by unexpected adulterants that may be present . cocaine has been adulterated or admixed with numerous substances , among them local anesthetics , amphetamine , phencyclidine , and strychnine . we report three cases of thallium poisoning following nasal insufflation of a substance that was believed to have been cocaine . 
pulmonary edema induced by intravenous ethchlorvynol . the intravenous injection of ethchlorvynol is an uncommon cause of noncardiac pulmonary edema . two cases of intravenous ethchlorvynol-induced pulmonary edema are presented . the patients fell asleep after injecting the liquid contents of placydil capsules ( ethchlorvynol ) and awoke several hours later with severe dyspnea . arterial blood gases demonstrated marked hypoxia . chest radiographs revealed bilateral diffuse alveolar densities . the patients ' symptoms and radiographic findings resolved after several days of supportive care . changes in the lung caused by ethchlorvynol may be the result of direct effect of the drug on the lung . 
atropine in the treatment of baclofen overdose . a patient suffering baclofen overdose successfully treated with atropine is reported . three hours after admission for ingestion of at least 300 mg baclofen as a single dose , the patient became comatose and subsequently bradycardic , hypotensive , and hypothermic . a prompt increase in heart rate and blood pressure followed administration of 1 mg of atropine sulfate . atropine appears to be useful in treating cases of baclofen overdose complicated by bradycardia and hypotension . 
ingestion of compound w , an unusual caustic . a case of an unusual caustic ingestion involving compound w , an over the counter wart remover is presented . chemical burns of the tongue , pharynx and larynx developed . the active ingredient in this preparation : salicylic acid in a flexible collodion vehicle produces caustic injury through a keratolytic action , which may be enhanced by the presence of collodion . 
emt-d fibrillation : more shocks for the future [ editorial ] 
estimating prehospital demand for pediatric antishock garments . 
emergency department thoracotomy [ letter ] 
academic aspirations of residents . 
selective continuous elimination of low density lipoproteins ( ldl ) by heparin precipitation : first clinical application . 
extractable ethylene oxide from cuprammonium cellulose plate dialyzers : importance of potting compound . our results suggest that ethylene oxide retention after sterilization is increased in cuprammonium cellulose plate dialyzers containing potting compound . in contrast , cuprammonium cellulose plate dialyzers without potting compound were characterized by a rapid disappearance of retained ethylene oxide after sterilization . whether these findings explain the low incidence of sard with cuprammonium cellulose plate dialyzers that do not contain potting material is a matter for continued study and experimentation . 
peritoneal dialysis . 
development of a small caliber vascular graft by a new crosslinking method incorporating slow heparin release collagen and natural tissue compliance . 
strontium overload in uremic patients on regular dialytic treatment . 
a bag-filter model of a new pret a porter artificial kidney . 
calcium carbonate as a phosphate binder in hemodialysis patients . calcium carbonate appears to be as effective as aluminum hydroxide in binding dietary phosphorus in hemodialysis patients . the long-term safety of this medication appears acceptable in view of today 's therapeutic options . 
an intraperitoneal receptacle for macroencapsulated endocrine tissue . 
a bioartificial parathyroid . 
innovation in blood purification for hepatic failure : direct photoirradiation of plasma . 
permeation rate to oxygen of membrane tympanostomy tubes . 
short-term in vivo operation of a glucose sensor . 
a novel elastomeric surgical adhesive : design , properties , and in vivo performances . 
contractile behavior of electrically activated mechanochemical polymer actuators . 
long-term repetitive plasmapheresis in hypercholesterolemic rabbits . 
rapid high-efficiency bicarbonate hemodialysis . 
acute fatal hyperaluminemic encephalopathy in undialyzed and recently dialyzed uremic patients . 
laser welding of large diameter arteries and veins . based on our preliminary studies and the results of this study , we conclude that argon laser welding of 4-8 mm internal diameter veins , arteries , and arteriovenous fistulas may have several potential advantages compared to conventional suture techniques . the benefits of laser repairs may include improved mechanical properties , and absence of the foreign body response related to sutures . laser welding is sterile , nontactile and possibly time conserving , and the wounds heal rapidly without aneurysms or excess tissue proliferation . 
effect of antiplatelet drugs on human endothelial cell growth in tissue culture . 
quantitation of platelet and fibrinogen deposition on ptfe and vein grafts in dogs and the effect of vitamin e on graft thrombosis in the acute phase . 
evaluation of a new antithrombogenic polyurethane-polysiloxane complex biomaterial . 
fracture healing with deferoxamine therapy in a patient with aluminum-associated osteomalacia . 
therapeutic effect of a left ventricular assist device on acute myocardial infarction evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging . 
comparison of clinical and animal recipients of a pneumatic artificial heart . 
experimental evaluation of extrapulmonary arterial balloon pumping ( epabp ) for right heart failure of diverse etiologies . 
the effect of left ventricular assistance on the area of infarcted myocardium . 
drive system management of emergency conditions in three permanent total artificial heart patients . 
large-animal model of chronic congestive heart failure induced by intracoronary allylamine . 
in vivo evaluation of a permanently implantable thermal ventricular assist system . the system 7 pump / actuator / engine combination has demonstrated biologic compatibility and physiologic effectiveness and responsiveness in five tvas in vivo studies . the recent 75-day implant supports the feasibility of extended reliability of the system components . postoperative system maintenance was necessary only because of the nonhermetic design of system 7. however , the ability to pump 11 l / min at 120 beats / min , synchronize at beat rates of 144 beats / min , and pump against mean arterial pressures of more than 150 mmhg while maintaining hematologic and biochemical values within physiologic range sets a very optimistic stage for system 8 hardware . a system 8 concept is shown in figure 14. the system 8 hardware will include a thermal salt package capable of providing completely untethered circulatory support for a nominal 8-h period . recharge will be accomplished with a transcutaneous transformer in 1 h . thermal management problems become minimal , with an average energy input of 15.8 w ( peak of 24.9 w ) . the human preclinical testing of system 8 will start in 1988. 
experimental chronic left ventricular failure in the dog . 
instrumentation for deriving pneumatic tah control signals from the driveline pressure and flow . 
idioperipheral pulsation during nonpulsatile biventricular bypass experiments . 
investigation of the flow in a centrifugal blood pump . 
rapid assay for heparin during extracorporeal circulation . 
right ventricular end-systolic pressure-dimension relationship during left ventricular bypass in anesthetized pigs . 
mechanical factors influencing the durability of heart valve pericardial bioprostheses . 
ptfe-silicone self-sealing dialysis prosthesis . 
nonsurgical implantation of a vascular ring prosthesis using thermal shape memory ti / ni alloy ( nitinol wire ) . 
long-term experience with routine single-needle dialysis . a review . 
trace metals and anemia in chronic hemodialysis patients . 
evaluation of a new vascular graft prosthesis fabricated from ultrafine polyester fiber . 
effect of a hydrogel with long polyethyleneoxide chains on blood coagulation and fibrinolysis . 
reduced platelet adhesion and activation of coagulation factors on polyurethane treated with albumin-igg complex . 
thermal effects of far ultraviolet excimer laser radiation on biologic tissue . 
a model of hemolysis in membrane plasmapheresis . 
fluid shear disruption of cultured endothelium : the effect of cell species , fibronectin cross-linking and supporting polymer . 
tissue developed around bioresorbable implants . load-bearing versus histology . 
use of polyethylene-lined silicone rubber cannulae in long-term insulin infusion in the dog . 
chromatographic studies of aluminum-desferrioxamine complex in uremic patients . 
reduction in aluminum load after one year of hemodiafiltration . 
short hemodialysis--10-year follow-up . 
rapid blood flow short dialysis does not adversely affect clinical , biochemical , or nutritional status of patients . 
macromolecular charge affects hemofilter solute sieving . 
comparison of plasmafractionation filters and filtration techniques in the clinical practice of ldl-apheresis . 
extraction of solute-free water from blood by membrane distillation . 
continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration for the treatment of anasarca and acute renal failure in severely burned patients . 
an automated plasma collector with innovative membrane and cassette-like disposable set . 
design of a plasma separator using ceramic membranes . 
continuous renal replacement therapy in patients with acute renal dysfunction undergoing intraaortic balloon pump and / or left ventricular device support . 
relationship between staverman 's reflection and sieving coefficients in a plasma fractionator . 
the microscopic evaluation of skin buttons used in a long-term human total artificial heart recipient . 
elimination of low molecular weight proteins during hemoperfusion of dialysis patients using a urethane-sheet embedded with powdered charcoal . 
effect of plasma solute-membrane interaction on mean pore diameter . 
development of a fine ceramic heart valve for use as a cardiac prosthesis . 
roller screw electric motor ventricular assist device . the roller screw electric vad is easier to manufacture and 25 % lighter than the previously described drum cam model . this device requires 12 to 15 w to pump 6 to 8 l / min with minimal hemolysis . the motor drive has functioned for periods up to 93 days in vivo with no measurable wear . the compliance chamber volume varies by 100 cc during vad function but does so while maintaining pressure variations below 15 mmhg . compliance chamber volume loss of 2 to 5 cc / day is explained by gas transport through spu . the subcutaneous sampling port provides ready access to the sealed system . 
natural heart recovery under left ventricular assist device pumping studied by echocardiography . 
regeneration of transected sciatic nerves through semi-permeable nerve guidance channels . effects of extracellular matrix protein additives . 
animal model for ethylene oxide ( eto ) associated hypersensitivity reactions . 
treatment of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy by plasma filtration . 
clinical trials with predilution and vacuum suction : enhancing the efficiency of the cavh treatment . 
physiologic effects of pyridoxalated-hemoglobin-polyethylene glycol conjugate solution in exchange transfusion . 
clinical evaluation of a multilayered cryofilter for highly selective cryoglobulin removal . 
minimum performance standards for double-lumen subclavian cannulas for hemodialysis . 
implantable continuous intravenous insulin infusion device . restoration of flow after slow-down . 
blood flow and surface-induced thrombosis . 
removal of aluminum from chronic dialysis patients by administration of desferrioxamine and dialysis . in order to perform quantitative in vitro and clinical studies on the removal of al by the combined therapy of dfo administration and hd , an hplc system for measuring dfo was established and a leaky membrane with enhanced permeability to middle molecular substances was developed . the dfo infusion caused rises in plasma al levels ( regarded as indicating the elution of accumulated al ) in patients undergoing hd . plasma levels increased most in long-term patients and those with bone pain . examination of al clearances demonstrated that this increased plasma al content passed through hd membranes at levels of more than 80 micrograms / l , and that the leaky membrane was more effective for removal of al as well as dfo than the conventional one . although a 1 : 1 complex between dfo and al in an aqueous solution was confirmed , the formation of al-rich complexes in vivo was suggested . it is concluded that al-dfo complex formed in vivo can be effectively removed across the leaky membrane . 
a portable , pumpless , av bypass ecco2r system , with a hollow fiber membrane lung . 
thrombocytopenia in neonates after extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . 
vented cardiac assistance : ecmo versus left heart bypass for acute left ventricular failure . 
the capd peritonitis rate is not improving with time . 
peptides as substitute osmotic agents for glucose in peritoneal dialysate . 
effect of intraperitoneal infusion volume and posture on left ventricular systolic function in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . 
a multicenter trial to evaluate the use of the capd " o " set . 
long-term outcome of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . the southern california / southern nevada experience . 
effects of calcium channel blockers ( verapamil , diltiazem ) on peritoneal transport . 
continuous arterio-venous hemofiltration in a wearable device to treat end-stage renal disease . 
multicenter evaluation of a bagless capd system . 
daily clearances with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis and nightly peritoneal dialysis . 
liposome-encapsulated hemoglobin as a red cell surrogate . preparation scale-up . 
is air under the diaphragm a significant finding in capd patients ? the incidence of air under the diaphragm in capd patients is very low , and causes directly attributable to standard capd techniques are even lower . bowel perforation generally causes a larger volume of air collection under the diaphragm . 
extracorporeal removal of tumor antigens . 
inhibition of bioprosthetic heart valve calcification by sustained local delivery of ca and na diphosphonate via controlled release matrices . 
quantitation of platelet and fibrinogen-fibrin deposition on components of tissue valves ( ionescu-shiley ) in calves . with 111in-labeled platelets and 125i-labeled bovine fibrinogen , regional mapping of platelet and fibrinogen deposition on leaflets and sewing rings was obtained . ten holstein calves received 25-mm mitral valves ( islm ) and were killed 1 , 14 , and 30 days after implantation . twenty-four hours before the calves were killed , 350 to 450 microci of 111in-labeled platelets and 200 to 250 microci of 125i-labeled bovine fibrinogen were administered intravenously . the components of the tissue valves , i.e. , three leaflets and sewing rings , were separated . each leaflet was cut into four sections : free edge , central zone , flexion zone , and attachment zone . from the radioactivity in blood , leaflet zones , sewing rings , area of leaflet zones , platelet count , and fibrinogen level in blood , the mean regional density of adherent platelets , fibrinogen-fibrin , and fibrinogen / platelet were calculated . the density of platelets and fibrinogen deposited on the components of the valves decreases with time postimplantation . the number of fibrinogen molecules per platelet is fivefold to 20-fold higher than that of the receptor concentration on platelets on leaflet zones , suggesting the heterogeneity of fibrinogen-fibrin in thrombus and components of the valve . 
neutrophil stimulation by lipid a and lipopolysaccharides from salmonella minnesota . 
maintenance of compliance in a small diameter arterial prosthesis . this study demonstrates that 20 to 30 microns porous , replamineform silicone rubber prostheses remain isocompliant with adjacent arterial segments up to 8 months following implantation . this finding contrasts with the results of currently available prostheses , including autologous vein , which rapidly become minimally compliant . we conclude that this vascular construction is stable over the long-term following implantation and may improve the success of small internal diameter arterial reconstruction by eliminating failures caused by intimal hyperplasia . 
a new hydrogel and its medical application . 
a new hemostatic material , g.t.xiii . 
preliminary experience with the swan neck peritoneal dialysis catheters . 
bilirubin removal from a jaundiced premature infant by resin hemoperfusion . to summarize the results : bilirubin removal by hemoperfusion was successfully performed for the first time on a premature infant . the hemoperfusion caused no adverse effects on the clinical state of the infant . the bilirubin removed in 90 min--13 mg--indicates the existence of a large extravascular pool . hemoperfusion is suggested for bilirubin removal from newborn babies , reducing the need for blood exchange with bank blood . 
development of a regenerated cellulose non-complement activating membrane for hemodialysis . we have developed a new cellulose membrane in which the active hydroxyl and carboxyl groups of the original cellulose fibers are masked with cationic synthetic polymers . the membrane was shown by in vitro and clinical tests to affect the activation of the complement system very little , and it retains the high dialysis efficiency , good tolerance to steam autoclave sterilization , and economical production cost characteristics of the original cellulose membrane . it thus appears that the new cellulose provides the optimum combination of qualities needed in a hemodialysis membrane . 
a membrane-immobilized monoclonal antibody immunoadsorption system . 
external peritoneo-venous shunt for intractable ascites . 
acute / adult / animal respiratory distress syndrome [ editorial ] 
pharmacokinetics of atracurium in anaesthetized infants and children . the pharmacokinetics of atracurium were studied in infants and children anaesthetized with isoflurane and nitrous oxide in oxygen . there were no significant differences in volume of distribution ( area ) ( 139 v . 152 ml kg-1 ) , clearance ( 5.1 v . 5.3 ml kg-1 min-1 ) , t1 / 2 alpha ( 2.1 v . 2.0 min ) , or t1 / 2 beta ( 19.1 v . 20.3 min ) between children with normal hepatic and renal function and those with moderately impaired hepatic function presenting for hepatic transplantation . there were significant differences in volume of distribution ( area ) ( 176 v . 139 ml kg-1 ) and in clearance of atracurium ( 9.1 v . 5.1 ml kg-1 min-1 ) between infants and children with normal excretory function . in infants the clearance of atracurium in ml m-2 min-1 ( 153 v . 133 ) tended to be greater and the t1 / 2 alpha and t1 / 2 beta tended to be shorter ( 1.0 v . 2.0 and 13.6 v . 19.1 ) than in children with normal excretory function ; however , these trends did not reach statistical significance . plasma laudanosine concentration was around 100 ng ml-1 greater in patients with liver disease than in normal children from 15-45 min following a bolus of atracurium 0.5 mg kg-1 . 
use of atracurium during major abdominal surgery in infants with hepatic dysfunction from biliary atresia . the use of atracurium during major abdominal surgery was assessed in 20 infants with hepatic dysfunction caused by biliary atresia . an initial dose of 0.6 mg kg-1 provided excellent intubating conditions in all patients . subsequent neuromuscular blockade was monitored with a peripheral nerve stimulator and incremental doses of atracurium were given on reappearance of a single twitch . neuromuscular conduction was allowed to return at the end of surgery and by careful timing of increments it was necessary to antagonize the neuromuscular blockade in only two patients . 
prospective study of liver function in children following multiple halothane anaesthetics at short intervals . in the 4 years january 1981 to december 1984 , 186 children received 1362 halothane anaesthetics . twenty-five patients were anaesthetized with halothane at least 10 times in a year . no patient developed postoperative jaundice . sixty-nine children were exposed to two halothane anaesthetics within 28 days on 149 occasions and serial estimations of serum liver enzyme concentrations were obtained . minor increases in the concentrations of serum ast and alt were recorded in 10.6 % and 4.7 % of patient entries , respectively . postoperative ggt and sap concentrations were increased in 2.7 % of patient entries . patients in whom enzyme values were increased before the first anaesthetic were no more likely than other subjects to develop further changes . 
histamine release during the administration of atracurium or vecuronium in children . the histamine releasing potential of equivalent bolus doses of atracurium 0.6 mg kg-1 or vecuronium 0.12 mg kg-1 was evaluated in 20 children anaesthetized with halothane . blood samples were obtained before , and at 2 and 5 min after the administration of the neuromuscular blocker . the twitch response to 0.15 hz was also evaluated . none of the 10 patients receiving vecuronium had a significant increase in plasma histamine concentration . in two of the 10 children receiving atracurium , the plasma histamine concentration increased markedly , but without any apparent clinical manifestations . recovery of neuromuscular function ( to 95 % twitch height ) after vecuronium 0.12 mg kg-1 was faster than after atracurium 0.6 mg kg-1 ( p less than 0.02 ) . 
ventilation , ventilatory carbon dioxide and hormonal response during halothane anaesthesia and surgery in children after midazolam premedication . in 14 intubated , spontaneously breathing children with body weight ( bw ) ranging from 8.3 to 25.6 kg , the influence of midazolam 0.1 mg kg-1 i.m. ( group m0.1 , n = 7 ) and 0.2 mg kg-1 i.m. ( group m0.2 , n = 7 ) as premedication , on sedation , ventilation , ventilatory response to carbon dioxide and hormonal stress response was studied in connection with minor surgical procedures during halothane anaesthesia . the concentrations of catecholamines , acth and cortisol were measured immediately after induction , during undisturbed anaesthesia , during surgery and 15 min after the end of the surgical procedure . sedation was better and plasma catecholamine concentrations during undisturbed anaesthesia were less in children receiving the larger dose of midazolam . during surgery and in recovery there were no differences in hormone concentrations . in recovery , the concentrations of all hormones were significantly greater compared with during undisturbed anaesthesia . during surgery , ve and respiratory rate were somewhat lower in group m0.2 while e ' co2 was similar . a dose dependent depression of the response to carbon dioxide was found . however , clinically , the ventilatory response to carbon dioxide after surgery was considered to be adequate in both groups . 
evoked electromyographic and mechanical responses of the adductor pollicis compared during the onset of neuromuscular blockade by atracurium or alcuronium , and during antagonism by neostigmine . the effects of atracurium and alcuronium on the evoked mechanical and electromyographic responses of the adductor pollicis were investigated in 30 adult patients . the ulnar nerve was stimulated with trains of four supramaximal pulses of 0.2 ms duration and a frequency of 2 hz at intervals of 20 s . the mechanical response was measured using a strain gauge force transducer and the evoked compound action potential ( ecap ) was recorded simultaneously using a medelec ms91 electromyography system . depression of the electromyographic and mechanical responses , caused by atracurium , was similar during onset and antagonism of blockade . during onset of blockade by alcuronium , the mechanical response was depressed to a significantly greater extent compared with the ecap . this difference was not observed during antagonism with neostigmine . the rates of onset of atracurium and alcuronium were generally similar , but the rate of onset of mechanical fade was greater in the alcuronium group . there was no significant quantitative difference between the rates of antagonism of alcuronium and atracurium when assessed by the mechanical first response ratio . electromyographic first response and electromyographic and mechanical train-of-four ratios recovered more rapidly in the atracurium group . these findings suggest that the differences between mechanical and electromyographic measurements of neuromuscular blockade are drug-specific and are more pronounced during the onset of blockade than during its antagonism by neostigmine . 
antagonism of profound neuromuscular blockade induced by vecuronium or atracurium . comparison of neostigmine with edrophonium . the effectiveness of neostigmine 0.07 mg kg-1 and edrophonium 0.8 mg kg-1 as antagonists of profound neuromuscular blockade induced by vecuronium 0.1 mg kg-1 or atracurium 0.5 mg kg-1 was studied in 59 healthy patients . the antagonists were administered 5 min after total ablation of the twitch response and the end-point of recovery was a train-of-four ratio of 70 % . in 30 patients given vecuronium the mean time to reach this point ( duration tof70 ) was 66.7 min in the control group ( no antagonist ) , 43.5 min in the group given neostigmine and 59.8 min in the group given edrophonium . the duration tof70 was shorter in the neostigmine group than in the control ( p less than 0.01 ) and edrophonium ( p less than 0.01 ) groups . the duration tof70 did not differ from control in the edrophonium group . in 29 patients given atracurium , the durations tof70 were 66.4 , 44.1 and 54.9 min in the control , neostigmine and edrophonium groups , respectively . the durations tof70 in the neostigmine ( p less than 0.01 ) and edrophonium ( p less than 0.01 ) , groups were shorter than control . the duration tof70 of the neostigmine group was shorter than in the edrophonium group ( p less than 0.01 ) . these results show that profound neuromuscular blockade cannot be rapidly antagonized by either of these two agents , but if reversal is required under these circumstances , neostigmine would be the more effective drug . 
antagonism of atracurium-induced neuromuscular blockade by neostigmine or edrophonium . antagonism of atracurium-induced neuromuscular blockade by neostigmine or edrophonium has been studied using the tetanic ( 50 hz ) and train-of-four ( 2 hz ) or single twitch responses of the adductor pollicis muscle in 22 anaesthetized patients . a further nine patients not given an anticholinesterase acted as a control group . in two groups ( six patients for each anticholinesterase ) in whom antagonism was attempted at 95-98 % blockade of the tetanic response , recovery of the tetanic response after two or three doses of edrophonium 0.75 mg kg-1 i.v. was not statistically different from that in the control group ; recovery after two doses of neostigmine 2.5 mg i.v. was significantly faster ( p less than 0.001 ) . recovery of the single twitch response after antagonism with edrophonium , although longer than that with neostigmine ( p less than 0.01 ) , was significantly shorter than in the control group ( p less than 0.05 ) . when edrophonium is given at the commencement of recovery , the initial rapid antagonism of tetanic block is not sustained , whereas antagonism by neostigmine is more persistent and the recovery phase is significantly shortened . in a further two groups of patients ( n = 5 ) given atracurium 0.3 mg kg-1 i.v. , antagonism was not attempted until the peak height of the tetanic contraction had reached approximately 50 % of the control value . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
reappearance of the train-of-four after neuromuscular blockade induced with tubocurarine , vecuronium or atracurium . the characteristics of train-of-four recovery after atracurium or vecuronium were studied , under enflurane anaesthesia , and compared with those associated with tubocurarine-induced blockade . ten patients each received vecuronium 0.1 mg kg-1 , atracurium 0.5 mg kg-1 or tubocurarine 0.5 mg kg-1 . neuromuscular blockade was calculated as the percent depression of the first twitch , and was determined at the time of reappearance of the second , third and fourth twitches of the train-of-four . the pattern during recovery from blockade induced by the three neuromuscular blocking agents was similar , with t2 , t3 and t4 reappearing at approximately 93 % , 89 % and 86 % residual blockade , respectively . these results are different from those previously reported by lee ( 1975 ) indicating that , under enflurane anaesthesia , the train-of-four count may give an incorrect estimate of the degree of neuromuscular blockade . 
comparison of visual and measured train-of-four recovery after vecuronium-induced neuromuscular blockade using two anaesthetic techniques . this study evaluated train-of-four recovery after the administration of vecuronium , comparing measured with visually observed responses . responses to supramaximal stimuli of the ulnar nerves were measured by a force transducer , and compared with visually observed movements of the contralateral thumb . for the 10 patients anaesthetized with nitrous oxide and enflurane , the second , third and fourth twitches visually reappeared at 84 ( + / - 10 ) % , 76 ( + / - 11 ) % , and 70 ( + / - 12 ) % measured blockade , respectively . for the other 10 patients , anaesthetized with a narcotic-barbiturate technique , the second , third and fourth twitches reappeared at 81 ( + / - 8 ) % , 68 ( + / - 9 ) % , and 59 ( + / - 11 ) % . these results were not different for the two anaesthetic techniques . 
pharmacokinetics of galanthamine ( a long-acting anticholinesterase drug ) in anaesthetized patients . the pharmacokinetics of the long-acting anticholinesterase drug , galanthamine , were investigated in eight patients . after i.v. injection of 0.3 mg kg-1 , the decrease in the serum concentration of galanthamine followed a biexponential curve . the serum concentration decreased rapidly from 543 + / - 47 ng ml-1 to 128 + / - 14 ng ml-1 between 2 and 30 min with a t1 / 2 alpha of 6.42 + / - 2.15 min , and then declined more slowly with a t1 / 2 beta of 264 + / - 28 min . total serum clearance of galanthamine amounted to 5.37 + / - 0.87 ml min-1 kg-1 , and the renal clearance was 1.36 + / - 0.10 ml min-1 kg-1 . the cumulative urinary excretion of galanthamine between 0 and 48 h after injection amounted to 28.0 + / - 5.4 % of the administered dose . the biliary excretion of galanthamine during 24 h amounted to 0.2 + / - 0.1 % of the dose . there was no evidence of glucuronide or sulphate conjugation of galanthamine . 
a sheep preparation for studying interactions between blood flow and drug disposition . vi : effects of general or subarachnoid anaesthesia on blood flow and chlormethiazole disposition . blood flow through and chlormethiazole extraction ratios across lungs , liver , kidneys and gut were measured in awake unrestrained sheep ( controls ) and with the same animals anaesthetized with 1.5 % halothane or whilst undergoing high thoracic subarachnoid blockade with amethocaine . in the control-drug studies , chlormethiazole infused to sub-sedative blood concentrations produced no significant changes in haemodynamics or in the kinetics of iodohippurate ( renal and hepatic blood flows ) . chlormethiazole was eliminated predominantly by the liver ( mean extraction ratio and clearance , respectively , 0.90 and 1.3 litre min-1 ) and lungs ( 0.15 ; 0.6 litre min-1 ) . renal clearance was absent or negligible ( greater than 0.1 litre min-1 ) . because of pulmonary clearance , mean total body clearance was derived from analysis of pulmonary arterial concentrations . under general anaesthesia , there were significant reductions in mean cardiac output , hepatic and renal blood flow ( to 54 % , 63 % and 43 % of control ) ; chlormethiazole mean hepatic extraction ratios and clearance were reduced , respectively , to 82 % and 56 % of control , and its pulmonary and renal clearances were abolished . with subarachnoid anaesthesia there were no significant changes in haemodynamics or in chlormethiazole extraction ratios or clearances . 
placement of double-lumen endobronchial tubes . correlation between clinical impressions and bronchoscopic findings . double-lumen endobronchial tubes were placed " blindly " in 23 patients undergoing thoracotomy . clinical criteria suggested satisfactory positioning in all cases ; however , subsequent fibreoptic bronchoscopy revealed malposition in 48 % . bronchoscopic findings included the inability to view the bronchial cuff , narrowing of the bronchial lumen of the tube at the level of the cuff and herniation of the cuff over the carina . the potential hazards associated with these findings are discussed . 
proceedings of the anaesthetic research society . leeds meeting . april 11-12 , 1986. abstracts . 
deadspace during high frequency ventilation [ letter ] 
histamine liberation with atracurium [ letter ] 
intrathecal morphine and multiple fractured ribs [ letter ] 
use of atracurium in pre-eclamptic patients [ letter ] 
an open study of vitamin d3 treatment in psoriasis vulgaris . active forms of vitamin d3 , 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin d3 and 1 alpha , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 , were administered in an open-design study to 40 patients with psoriasis vulgaris in three ways : to 17 patients 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin d3 was given orally at a dose of 1.0 micrograms / day for 6 months , to four patients 1 alpha , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 was given orally at a dose of 0.5 microgram / day for 6 months , and 19 patients were given 1 alpha , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 applied topically at concentration of 0.5 microgram / g of base for 8 weeks . improvement was observed at the end of the individual study periods in 13 ( 76 % ) patients in group 1 with a mean period of treatment ( + / - sd ) of 2.7 + / - 0.6 months , in one patient in group 2 at 3 months after the start of treatment , and in 16 ( 84 % ) patients in group 3 when the chemical was applied for 3.3 + / - 1.2 weeks . no side-effects were observed in any of these trials . these data suggest that psoriasis may respond to active metabolites of vitamin d3 and that abnormalities in vitamin d metabolism or in responsiveness of the skin cells to active metabolites of vitamin d may be involved in the pathogenesis of this skin disease . 
successful treatment of psoriasis with topical application of active vitamin d3 analogue , 1 alpha , 24-dihydroxycholecalciferol . we treated 11 psoriatic patients with topical 1 alpha , 24-dihydroxycholecalciferol , a new synthetic analogue of active vitamin d3 . in 10 of 15 tests the lesions cleared completely within 1-4 weeks , although some relapses occurred shortly after cessation of treatment . there were no side-effects . we suggest that 1 alpha , 24 ( oh ) 2d3 merits further investigation as a potentially useful topical therapy for psoriasis . 
circulating antibodies and antigenic cross-reactivity in hendersonula toruloidea and scytalidium hyalinum infections . twelve ( 34 % ) of thirty-five patients with an active infection on the palms or soles caused by hendersonula toruloidea or scytalidium hyalinum were found to have circulating antibodies to these organisms by counter immunoelectrophoresis or immunodiffusion , compared with 9 % of uninfected controls . in every instance there was cross-reactivity between the positive patients ' sera and the heterologous non-dermatophyte antigen . using crossed and intermediate gel immunoelectrophoresis it was found that cytoplasmic extracts of h . toruloidea and s . hyalinum showed 34 and 41 precipitin peaks respectively , most of which were shared by both organisms . no cross-reactions were observed between the non-dermatophyte cytoplasmic extracts and hyperimmune animal antisera raised to trichophyton rubrum , trichophyton interdigitale , aspergillus fumigatus or candida albicans . exoantigens prepared from the two non-dermatophytes showed similar cross-reactivity between the two species . it appears that h . toruloidea and s . hyalinum are very similar in antigenic structure , a finding which lends support to the view that they may be closely related . they are also antigenically distinct from other pathogenic fungi which commonly infect skin , a fact which may be useful in their cultural identification as well as their recognition in tissue specimens . 
a quantitative study of the effect of topical indomethacin on cutaneous erythema induced by uvb and uvc radiation . the effect of indomethacin gel on uvb and uvc erythema was assessed objectively using a reflectance instrument . when indomethacin was applied immediately after irradiation , uvr ( ultraviolet radiation ) dose-dependent suppression of erythema was demonstrated for both wavelengths until 36 h after irradiation when both indomethacin and control gel base-treated sites were equally erythematous . suppression of erythema also occurred when application of indomethacin was delayed until 24 h after irradiation , showing that for both wavelengths prostaglandin synthesis remains increased throughout this period . the degree of suppression at any time , however , was no greater than that achieved by a single application immediately after irradiation , indicating that the eventual equal erythema of indomethacin and gel base-treated sites was not due to tachyphylaxis or inadequate dosage . construction of dose-response curves for the indomethacin-responsive and indomethacin-unresponsive components of erythema shows that in human skin the difference in erythemal response to uvb and uvc radiation is not due to the formation of different mediators at these wavelengths . 
behavioural treatment of scratching in patients with atopic dermatitis . a behavioural method of habit reversal , in combination with a hydrocortisone cream , was compared with the use of cream alone in the treatment of 17 patients with atopic dermatitis . the patients were assigned randomly to two groups , one of which received the combination treatment and the other regular ointment treatment . the patients ' skin status was assessed before and after treatment , and the patients recorded their scratching during the study . both groups improved , but the group which received habit-reversal therapy improved significantly more . a strong correlation was found between reduction in scratching and improvement in skin status . 
effect of percutaneous absorption of hydrocortisone on adrenocortical responsiveness in infants with severe skin disease . percutaneous absorption of hydrocortisone was studied in 18 children ( aged from 6 weeks to 14 1 / 2 years ) with atopic or seborrhoeic dermatitis , by measuring their serum cortisol before and after application of 1 % hydrocortisone cream . endogenous secretion of cortisol was suppressed with dexamethasone . a 24 h absorption test was performed on nine children . in six , percutaneous absorption was detected . the highest serum cortisol level was reached within the first 6 h . a 4 h absorption test was developed on the basis of the 24 h test . this short absorption test was performed on nine children , and in eight of them absorption of hydrocortisone was detected . the rise of serum cortisol ranged from 98 to 2669 nmol / l . the 2 h acth test was performed to evaluate the effect of previous treatment with topical glucocorticoids . suppressed adrenocortical function was found in five of 13 children , and was associated significantly with high post-application serum cortisol levels . this occurred more often in infants with a severe skin disorder than in older children or in those with mild or moderate skin disease . 
challenge reactions in atopic dermatitis after percutaneous entry of mite antigen . we succeeded in reproducing an eczematous lesion on the apparently normal skin of a patient with atopic dermatitis by scratching and continuous application of an ointment containing ferritin-labelled mite antigen . percutaneous entry of mite antigen was demonstrated in skin biopsies by fe-staining . scratched skin first showed an urticarial reaction typical of type i allergy which later changed into an eczematous reaction typical of type iv allergy . this change was also shown histologically . 
secondary syphilis mimicking sweet 's syndrome . we describe a patient with secondary syphilis and facial skin lesions which resembled sweet 's syndrome clinically and histologically . we suggest serological tests for syphilis in patients with sweet 's syndrome . 
giant orf in a normal individual . 
blisters over burn scars in a child . we present the case of an 11-month-old baby with a burn that healed normally over a month , but subsequently developed successive crops of blisters over the scar . there were no changes in his general condition . clinical , immunological , histological and ultrastructural studies provided a diagnosis of mechanical dermatitis produced by microtrauma . electron microscopy studies revealed the sub-epidermal nature of the blisters and the presence of underlying fibrin deposits . 
natural killer cells and lymphomatoid granulomatosis [ letter ] 
persistent phototoxicity after benoxaprofen [ letter ] 
postpartum thyroiditis--an underdiagnosed disease . 
the effects of inflammatory bowel disease on pregnancy : a case-controlled retrospective analysis . retrospective analysis of 82 pregnancies in women with either ulcerative colitis or crohn 's disease suggested that , in general , neither disease had a major effect on pregnancy outcome . the birth-weights of babies born to women with inflammatory bowel disease were marginally lower than those born to women in a control group matched for age and parity , but the difference was statistically significant only in women with crohn 's disease . in both disease groups there was a higher frequency of low haemoglobin levels in pregnancy than in the matched control groups . there were no statistically significant effects of ulcerative colitis or crohn 's disease on duration of pregnancy , mode of delivery or raised blood pressure and / or proteinuria . in the absence of a relapse , a diagnosis of inflammatory bowel disease should not influence obstetric management . 
fetal and maternal effects of forceps and vacuum extraction . 
alpha interferon in human pregnancy . the concentration of interferon-alpha was measured by a specific two-site immunoradiometric assay in a variety of fluids and tissues collected during human pregnancy . maternal blood and blood and tissues from non-pregnant adults contained little or no interferon-alpha . fetal blood , fetal organs , placenta , membranes , amniotic fluid and decidua all contained significant and roughly equivalent amounts ranging from 1.1 to 10 u / ml ( or per g of tissue ) . these findings demonstrate that the fetus and its immediate surroundings are permeated with interferon . it is suggested that this may play a role in regulation of the maternal-fetal graft relation . 
enhanced phagocytosis of mononuclear phagocytes in pregnancy . the phagocytic activity of peripheral blood mononuclear phagocytes for staphylococcus epidermis of healthy non-pregnant and pregnant women throughout pregnancy was examined in relation to gestational age . the study included 30 healthy non-pregnant women and 90 healthy pregnant women equally distributed across the three trimesters . two variables were investigated : the number of mononuclear cells in phagocytosis and the average number of bacteria per monocyte in phagocytosis . as pregnancy progressed a gradual and significant increase was found in the number of monocytes in phagocytosis and a significantly higher proportion of macrophages with six or more bacteria per phagocyte . 
an unusual presentation of pulmonary thromboembolism in late pregnancy . case report . 
haemangioma of the ovary with associated endometrial hyperplasia . case report . 
ovarian metastasis from stage 1b squamous carcinoma of the cervix . case report . 
a feminizing sertoli-leydig cell tumour in a postmenopausal woman . case report . 
isolated arteritis of the uterine cervix . three case reports . 
diploid complete hydatidiform mole , mosaic for normally fertilized cells and androgenetic homozygous cells . case report . 
carcinoma of the gall bladder metastatic to the cervix . case report . 
vergence amplitudes with random-dot stereograms . random-dot stereograms were found to be capable of producing fusional vergence amplitudes in the absence of monocular contours . these vergence amplitudes are not an artefact of monocular contours provided by the target borders or test instrument and are comparable in range to vergence amplitudes measured clinically with second degree fusion targets in an amblyoscope . we conclude that diplopia of monocularly recognisable contours is not necessary for producing fusional vergence amplitudes . 
posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation--a new forceps to simplify capsular bag fixation . the case for capsular bag fixation of the sinsky-kratz type of posterior chamber intraocular implant lens is presented , and the various methods in use to position implant lenses are outlined . the new forceps are described and the rationale for their adoption and use is given in an illustrated , step-by-step fashion . their additional use in anterior chamber intraocular lens implantation is mentioned . there is a brief summary of the author 's experience with this instrument . 
regression of labrador keratopathy following cataract extraction . labrador keratopathy ( lk ) is an acquired corneal degeneration thought to be caused by chronic exposure to solar irradiation . reports so far suggest that it is a progressive or at least a stationary condition . there are no detailed reports on recommended therapy . a prospective clinical study was conducted to show regression of lk following extracapsular cataract extraction . seventeen black patients ( 26 eyes ) with lk and mature cataracts underwent extracapsular cataract extraction . the severity of the lk was recorded photographically pre- and postoperatively . the follow-up ranged from 6 to fifteen months . twenty-four eyes ( 92 % ) showed regression of the lk . the reduction in exposure to ultraviolet light as a result of aphakic photophobia could be one of the factors which have led to the regression of the lk . 
sussex eye hospital sports injuries . to assess the prevalence of sports eye injuries in our area a register was kept over the 18 months from october 1982 to march 1984. squash , association football , badminton , and tennis were the main offenders . the severest injury was from a golf ball , involving a fractured zygoma . there was one retinal dialysis , and one lens dislocation requiring extraction . spectacles were broken in six cases and a contact lens in one . glass fragments needed operative removal in one case , but there were no penetrating injuries . the value of eye protection , not worn by any of our patients , is emphasised . 
inferences from beading of a retinal vein draining a choroidal melanoma . beading of a retinal vein draining a choroidal melanoma is reported , showing that the endothelial proliferation producing the beading is a response to some blood borne factor ( s ) traversing the vein and that retinal capillary non-perfusion adjacent to the beaded vein is not a necessary part of the process . 
photographic recording of slit-lamp appearances of the ocular fundus . the four methods of illumination in the use of slit-lamp biomicroscopy of the anterior segment , described first by vogt , are equally useful in the posterior part of the eye . examination of the ocular fundus is more difficult . in particular , photography of the central and peripheral parts of the fundus demands additional technical arrangements if all the appearances of biomicroscopy are to be recorded . 
sunglasses--an ocular hazard ? a suggestion that protective eye gear can pose a threat either to the crystalline lens or to the retina is examined from an epidemiological point of view . it is concluded that it may accentuate a pre-existing high-risk hazard but has little significance for low-risk hazards . 
retinal cotton-wool spots : an early finding in diabetic retinopathy ? five insulin dependent diabetic patients are reported on who had a few small retinal cotton-wool spots or ' soft exudates ' either totally isolated or associated with fewer than 10 microaneurysms . these observations suggest that cotton-wool spots may be an early finding in diabetic retinopathy . significant biological abnormalities in these patients were high levels of glycosylated haemoglobin and mild increases in thrombin generation , indicating slight activation of the coagulation system . the possible significance of these clinical and biological findings is discussed . 
the presumed neurotoxic effects of catha edulis--an exotic plant now available in the united kingdom . bilateral optic atrophy is reported in two patients who , although they were long-standing users of the leaves of catha edulis , had chewed larger quantities than usual . since the leaves of this plant are used widely throughout its native area as the source of a mildly stimulant narcotic , the effect in these cases may be an idiosyncratic reaction to an unusually large dose . 
histopathology of mitochondrial cytopathy and the laurence-moon-biedl syndrome . clinical and histopathological studies of two patients with distinctly different inherited juvenile retinal dystrophies indicate that the ocular defect in mitochondrial cytopathy involves the underlying pigment epithelium , whereas in the laurence-moon-biedl syndrome the photoreceptor cells are primarily affected . 
lysis of human fibroblast colony-forming cells and endothelial cells by monoclonal antibody ( 6-19 ) and complement . the murine igg2a monoclonal antibody 6-19 binds to a wide variety of nonhematopoietic cells including human marrow-derived stromal cells but does not bind to marrow or peripheral blood cells . we studied the effects of this antibody and rabbit complement on marrow cells . fibroblast colonies were eliminated from light density marrow cells by a single incubation with monoclonal antibody 6-19 and complement . the growth and composition of granulocytic and erythroid colonies were unaffected . specific complement mediated cytotoxicity of the antibody was confirmed on passaged human fibroblasts derived from marrow ( more than 99.6 % of fibroblasts are killed by a single treatment ) . similar results were obtained with human umbilical cord endothelial cells . in addition , such treatment abolished the initiation of dexter culture stroma . incubation of bone marrow cell suspensions with this antibody and complement will allow the study of stroma-free marrow cells in long-term liquid cultures . 
sl / sld mouse bone marrow stroma in vitro contains an active radiation-sensitive inhibitor of normal hemopoiesis . sl / sld mice have a defective hemopoietic microenvironment . it has been assumed , based upon previous studies , that the primary abnormality in these mice is simply lack of a necessary supportive or inductive material within the hemopoietic stroma . we used in vitro long-term bone marrow cultures to characterize further the nature of the hemopoietic microenvironmental defect in sl / sld mice . sl / sld mouse bone marrow cells consistently produced less than 10 % of the total hemopoietic cells and multipotent and unipotent hemopoietic progenitor cells produced in cultures of marrow from normal , congenic + / + mice . if fresh sl / sld and + / + marrow cells were mixed prior to establishing long-term marrow cultures , there was a direct correlation between number of sl / sld cells added and degree of inhibition of + / + hemopoiesis . a pre-established , confluent sl / sld adherent stromal layer inhibited hemopoiesis by fresh + / + marrow cells by nearly 70 % , as compared with dishes with irradiated + / + or no stroma . this inhibitory effect was abrogated by irradiation of the sl / sld stroma prior to addition of the fresh + / + marrow cells . similarly , unirradiated , but not 9 to 200 gy irradiated sl / sld stroma inhibited proliferation of the factor-dependent fdc-p1 hemopoietic progenitor cell line . thus , the sl / sld hemopoietic microenvironment actively inhibits hemopoiesis in vitro , and this inhibition can be at least partially eliminated by irradiation of the sl / sld stroma . 
expression of fibrinogen receptors during activation and subsequent desensitization of human platelets by epinephrine . epinephrine causes platelet aggregation and secretion by interacting with alpha 2-adrenergic receptors on the platelet surface . platelet aggregation requires the binding of fibrinogen to a specific receptor on the membrane glycoprotein iib-iiia complex . although the iib-iiia complex is identifiable on the surface of resting platelets , the fibrinogen receptor is expressed only after platelet activation . the current studies were designed to examine the effect of occupancy of platelet alpha 2-adrenergic receptors by epinephrine on the expression of fibrinogen receptors and on the aggregation of platelets . the ability of epinephrine to induce the expression of fibrinogen receptors was studied under two different conditions : acute stimulation ( less than 1 min ) and prolonged stimulation ( 50 to 90 min ) , the latter of which is associated with a reduction or " desensitization " of the platelet aggregation response . expression of the fibrinogen receptor was monitored with 125i-fibrinogen as well as with 125i-pac-1 ( pac-1 ) , a monoclonal antibody that binds to the glycoprotein iib-iiia complex only after platelets are activated . epinephrine caused an immediate increase in pac-1 and fibrinogen binding that was dependent on occupancy of the alpha 2-receptor by epinephrine and on the presence of extracellular free ca ( kca = 30 mumol / l ) . by itself , 1 mmol / l mg was unable to support induction of the fibrinogen receptor by epinephrine . however , it did decrease the ca requirement by about two orders of magnitude . prolonged stimulation of unstirred platelets by epinephrine led to a 70 % decrease in the aggregation response when the platelets were subsequently stirred . despite their decreased aggregation response , desensitized platelets bound pac-1 and fibrinogen normally , indicating that the loss of aggregation was not due simply to a decrease in fibrinogen receptor expression . although desensitization was not affected by pretreatment of the platelets with aspirin , it was partially prevented when extracellular ca was chelated by edta during the long incubation with epinephrine . these studies demonstrate that once platelet alpha 2-adrenergic receptors are occupied by epinephrine , extracellular ca is involved in initiating the aggregation response by supporting the induction of the fibrinogen receptor and the binding of fibrinogen . furthermore . ca-dependent reactions subsequent to fibrinogen binding may be necessary for maximal platelet aggregation and are impaired when platelets become desensitized to epinephrine . 
morphological abnormalities in the lymphocytes of patients with the wiskott-aldrich syndrome . lymphocytes from 18 patients with the wiskott-aldrich syndrome ( was ) were examined by scanning electron microscopy ( sem ) . most peripheral blood lymphocytes from normal individuals are covered with slender microvillus projections , but a large proportion of lymphocytes from was patients were found to be relatively devoid of microvilli . a lymphocyte morphology scoring system was developed to quantify the density of microvilli : grade 4 classified those lymphocytes with greater than 75 % of the surface covered with microvilli with progressive decrements to grade 1 , which were those without microvilli . the mean lymphocyte morphology score of eight normal individuals was 3.62 + / - .22 . the mean lymphocyte score of was patients was substantially lower ( 2.89 + / - .27 , p less than .001 ) . in addition , was lymphocytes often were qualitatively abnormal , with short , blunted microvilli . these morphological criteria were used to diagnose was from the cord blood lymphocytes of one " at-risk " patient . thus , was is the first primary immunodeficiency in which morphological abnormalities have been identified that can aid in diagnosis . 
quantitative relationship between heinz body formation and red blood cell deformability . the ultimate cause of destruction of red blood cells ( rbcs ) after oxidative damage with heinz body formation is not well understood . we correlated the changes in rbc morphology and membrane protein composition after oxidant treatment with the alterations in deformability of whole cells and cell membranes . the incubation of rbcs with phenylhydrazine concentrations of 0.3 to 100 mg / dl at 37 degrees c for one hour led to a dose-dependent formation of heinz bodies , ranging from isolated heinz bodies at 1 mg / dl to a confluent coating of the inner membrane surface at 100 mg / dl phenylhydrazine . sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed the presence of a large quantity of hemoglobin bound to the ghost membrane of treated rbcs . electrophoresis with and without dithiothreitol indicated that disulfide bridges are abundant between hemoglobin molecules and are also present among membrane proteins but are not the major bond between hemoglobin and membrane . changes of spectrin , ankyrin , band 3 , and band 6 and the appearance of a 260 , 000-dalton complex were also observed . with phenylhydrazine concentrations below 30 mg / dl , even in the presence of multiple heinz bodies , the rbc deformability measured by filtration through 2.6- , 4.5- , and 6.8-microns pores and the membrane deformability determined by a filter aspiration technique were not altered . with 100 mg / dl phenylhydrazine , when the entire membrane was coated with heinz bodies , rbc filterability and membrane deformability were drastically reduced . these results indicate that oxidative damage of rbcs with discrete heinz body formation causes focal membrane rigidification but does not affect the global cellular deformability until the heinz bodies nearly cover the entire cell endoface . 
beta zero-thalassemia in association with a gamma-globin gene quadruplication . we have studied the hematology , hemoglobin composition , and globin gene arrangements in one young turkish boy with a beta zero-thalassemia homozygosity and in 11 of his relatives . evidence is presented that the chromosome with the beta zero-thalassemia determinant carries a gamma-globin gene quadruplication , perhaps in a -g gamma-g gamma-g gamma-a gamma-gene arrangement . the eight gamma-globin genes in this patient produced g gamma and a gamma chains in a 95 to 5 ratio , and nearly 99 % of the patient 's hemoglobin was of the fetal type . the clinical condition resembled that of a thalassemia intermedia . hbf levels in eight beta-thalassemia heterozygotes varied between 0.5 and 4.2 % and the percentages of g gamma in this hbf averaged at 87 % or 95 % ; this level is to some extent related to the haplotype of the normal chromosome . all subjects carried four alpha-globin genes ; a new bglii polymorphism was observed within the psi alpha-globin gene . 
hyposialylation of differentiation-inducer-resistant hl-60 cells . the total sialic acid concent of retinoic acid ( ra ) -resistant or 6-thioguanine ( 6tg ) -resistant hl-60 cells was more than tenfold lower and of dimethylsulfoxide ( dmso ) -resistant hl-60 cells was approximately twofold lower than that of parental , wild-type ( wt ) hl-60 cells . neuraminidase-inaccessible , ie residual cell-associated sialic acid after neuraminidase treatment , was four- to twelvefold lower in the three differentiation-inducer-resistant sublines than in the parent line . neuraminidase treatment of 125i-labeled surface membrane glycoproteins ( smgs ) from wt hl-60 cells converted the two-dimensional gel electrophoretic pattern to one having features in common with ra- and 6tg-resistant cells . however , neuraminidase treatment did not alter the sensitivity of wt hl-60 cells to differentiation induction by ra , hypoxanthine ( purine base ) , or dmso . these results indicate that differences in peripheral , neuraminidase-accessible sialic acids are important determinants of the gel electrophoretic mobility of the smgs of the hl-60 line and sublines but are not likely related to the differentiation-resistance mechanism . further studies are required to determine if hyposialylation of cryptic , neuraminidase-inaccessible sites has functional significance . 
in vitro tumor cell cytolysis mediated by peptide defensins of human and rabbit granulocytes . we examined the activity of defensins , cysteine-rich cationic peptides that are abundant in the cytoplasmic granules of human and rabbit granulocytes , against various tumor targets . the three human defensins , hnp-1 , hnp-2 , and hnp-3 , lysed human and murine targets in chromium release and dye exclusion assays . defensin-mediated tumor cell lysis was concentration-dependent , inhibited by serum , and dependent on temperature-sensitive events . lysis was first detected by three hours of incubation and it reached a plateau between eight and 14 hours . in vitro exposure of murine teratocarcinoma cells to hnp 1-3 abrogated their oncogenicity in vivo . nonmalignant target cells were also susceptible to defensin-mediated lysis . four rabbit granulocyte defensins exerted marked ( np-1 , np-2 ) or moderate ( np-3a , np-3b ) cytotoxic activity , whereas defensin np-5 was not cytotoxic . when tumor cells were incubated with human defensins in combination with hydrogen peroxide , synergistic cytotoxicity was detected . as defensins are released from granulocytes by various stimuli , their release could contribute to extracellular cytotoxicity which is independent of reactive oxygen intermediates . 
mode of inheritance of type ii protein s deficiency [ letter ] 
deoxyhemoglobin s polymer formation in sickle cells [ letter ] 
recent trends in rheumatoid arthritis . 
peptic ulcer in rheumatoid arthritis--intrinsic or related to drug therapy ? the reported incidence of peptic ulcer disease ( pud ) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) is higher than that of the general population . unusual susceptibility to pud in ra , independent of therapy , has been suggested . to compare ra patients with others who had similar drug exposure but no known predisposition to pud , 120 patients hospitalized for treatment of severe arthritis ( 65 with ra , 55 with osteoarthritis ) were assessed by questionnaire for pud history , drug history and other relevant variables . the relationship of pud to sex distribution , smoking , alcohol consumption and anti-inflammatory therapy followed expected patterns . we found high but similar pud rates in ra and osteoarthritis ( oa ) patients ( ra 15 % , oa 18 % ) . this suggests that a common factor ( probably drugs ) is responsible . we feel that the documented high incidence of pud in ra is most probably related to drug therapy . available methods cannot determine if pud ever occurs as a primary manifestation of ra . 
effect of corticosteroid therapy on blood monocyte superoxide generation in rheumatoid arthritis : studies in vitro and ex vivo . rates of superoxide ( sa ) generation by blood monocytes stimulated ex vivo were studied before and during corticosteroid treatment of rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) patients , in control patients and in healthy controls . the direct effect on stimulated sa production of pre-incubating cells with prednisolone in vitro was also studied . significant inhibition of monocyte sa output stimulated with igg-treated zymosan ( itz ) and fluoride ion ( f ) , but not serum-treated zymosan ( stz ) was demonstrated following steroid therapy in ra . no inhibitory effect of prednisolone could be demonstrated in vitro , using itz , stz and f as stimuli . our data on blood monocyte yields , size and cytochemistry suggest that the in vivo effect is due to a shift in blood monocyte traffic . 
comparison of methotrexate with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine in refractory rheumatoid arthritis : a life-table analysis . methotrexate ( mtx ) appears to be useful in patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) refractory to other drugs but its long-term toxicity and efficacy are uncertain . a retrospective study of mtx in such patients in comparison with the purine analogues , azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine was made using life-table analysis . eighty-four patients took mtx in a median dose of 7.5 mg / week whilst 55 received purine analogues , 100 mg / day ( median ) . by 12 months , 19.3 % of patients had ceased mtx due to toxicity , compared with 29.3 % for purine analogues . toxicity severe enough to warrant stopping therapy was uncommon after 8 months with either drug . at 12 months 61.5 % of the mtx patients had achieved defined criteria of improvement compared with 25.6 % for the purine analogues ( p less than 0.05 ) . the number of patients improving on purine analogues did not increase substantially after 6 months , whereas the number improving with mtx continued to 12 months . mtx in a low-dose regimen is useful in refractory ra and superior to low-dose purine analogues . 
thioguanine-resistant mutations induced by cytotoxic drugs in lymphocytes of patients with connective tissue diseases . cells with mutations at the hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyl transferase ( hprt ) locus may be detected in vitro by their resistance to the toxic effects of thioguanine . we have assessed hprt mutants in peripheral blood lymphocytes of patients with connective tissue diseases who have been treated for long periods with cytotoxic drugs . the results from patients treated with cyclophosphamide were abnormal suggesting the presence of drug-induced mutations . the results from patients treated with chlorambucil or azathioprine did not differ from controls--either these drugs have not induced mutations or , more likely , the technique is not sufficiently sensitive to detect them . these possibilities are discussed . specific mutations induced by cytotoxic drugs in patients with connective tissue diseases have not been previously recorded . 
intensive immunosuppression in intractable rheumatoid arthritis . twelve patients with intractable rheumatoid arthritis were treated with antilymphocyte globulin ( alg ) , prednisolone and a cytotoxic agent , usually azathioprine , and were followed for 1 year . there was a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) improvement in the mean score for early-morning stiffness , grip strength and the severity of nodules and vasculitis at 6 weeks and 3 months when compared to the initial visit . however , in most patients , this benefit was not sustained despite continued cytotoxic and steroid therapy . a rise in the haemoglobin and fall in esr was maintained throughout the study period . 
clinical tests for carpal tunnel syndrome : an evaluation . five clinical tests in common use for diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndromes have been shown to have little diagnostic value , either individually or in various combinations . no physical sign is useful in the diagnosis of this condition , which should be suspected on the basis of presenting symptoms and confirmed by electrodiagnosis using standard median nerve conduction tests . 
synovial involvement in hodgkin 's disease . we report a case of monoarthropathy in a patient with hodgkin 's disease , due to invasion of the synovium , with apparently normal juxta-articular bone . 
episodic arthritis in cystic fibrosis : a case report . episodic arthritis is an uncommon manifestation of cystic fibrosis . we describe the case of a 21-year-old man with cystic fibrosis who suffered from episodic arthritis associated with vasculitic skin lesions . aetiology is discussed with reference to the possible role of immune complex disease . 
sclerodactyly complicating coeliac disease . 
an assessment of glucose tolerance in patients with idiopathic carpal tunnel syndrome [ letter ] 
gastric ulceration and nsaids in ra [ letter ] 
coagulase-negative staphylococcus as a cause of joint infection [ letter ] 
agreement between horizontal and vertical visual analogue scales [ letter ] 
tvs brace in patients with rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis of the knee [ letter ] 
reiter 's syndrome after radiotherapy for prostatic carcinoma [ letter ] 
preliminary evidence of gut involvement in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis ? [ letter ] 
clostridium perfringens and rheumatoid arthritis [ letter ] 
inhibitors of urinary stone formation in 40 recurrent stone formers . the excretion of four inhibitors of urinary stone formation ( zinc , magnesium , citrates and glycosaminoglycans ( gag ) was studied in 20 normal controls and 40 recurrent calcium stone formers who were placed on a fixed diet restricted in calcium , oxalates and purines . we were unable to show any abnormality in the excretion of zn , mg or gag . in 11 patients , a low level of urinary citrate was a significant feature that was associated in most cases with a urinary ph value above 6. citrate concentration ( per litre ) and output ( per 24 h ) were found to be lower than in the controls in 19 and 33 % respectively of the determinations . the overall ratio of average urinary citrate concentration in patients and controls was 0.56 , a figure in agreement with previous data . 
fistula and sinus formation in xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis . a clinicopathological review and report of four cases . fistula or deep sinus formation as a complication of xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis ( xpn ) has not been described previously in the british literature . we present the clinicopathological features of one case of a nephrodiaphragmatic sinus complicating xpn , and three cases of nephrocolic fistula , including the first recorded case of fistula in childhood xpn . the detailed clinical , radiological and pathological features of xpn and its complications are reviewed . total nephrectomy , together with primary excision of sinuses or fistulae , is the treatment of choice . 
renal metastases from carcinoma of the lung . five cases of clinically manifest solitary and bilateral renal lesions metastatic from the lung are presented . these cases are unusual in that renal metastases are usually silent lesions discovered at autopsy . review of the autopsy data from this hospital identified renal metastases in 19 % of patients who died from carcinoma of the lung . this incidence parallels that of other series . a solid renal lesion which is identified in a patient with a history of pulmonary carcinoma should raise the suspicion of renal metastases , especially if computed tomography of the mass demonstrates relative homogeneity and minimal enhancement . more frequent use of the abdominal ct scan in staging patients with lung cancer will render metastatic carcinoma from lung to kidney a more frequent ante mortem diagnosis . 
rigid ureteroscopy for the treatment of ureteric calculi : experience in 120 cases . over a 1-year period , rigid ureteroscopy has been used to retrieve ureteric calculi in 120 patients . the technical details , causes of failure and the complications are described . an initial success rate of 78 % was obtained . it was concluded that ureteroscopy should replace blind procedures for the extraction of ureteric stones . 
endoscopic correction of vesicoureteric reflux secondary to neuropathic bladder . eleven patients with vesicoureteric reflux secondary to neuropathic bladder were treated by endoscopic injection of pyrolised polytetrafluoroethylene ( polytef ) paste . thirteen of the 15 ureters treated showed disappearance of reflux after one injection . the amount of polytef paste injected varied from 0.2 to 0.9 ml ( mean 0.45 ml ) . there were no complications , except in one ureter where distension of the collecting system was slightly increased compared with the pre-operative urogram . 
influence of serotonin on lower urinary tract smooth muscle in vitro . the influence of serotonin ( 5-hydroxytryptamine ) on human detrusor and on pig detrusor , trigone , bladder neck and urethral smooth muscle was explored in a series of in vitro experiments . serotonin evoked a dose-dependent and reversible contraction of the detrusor . the reverse response was triggered in trigone , bladder neck and urethral smooth muscle--a dose-dependent and reversible relaxation . the maximum amplitude of this relaxation was 85 + / - 15 % of the relaxation produced by electrical nerve stimulation . the effect of serotonin was unaltered by blockade of ganglia , alpha- and beta-adrenergic receptors , cholinergic receptors and prostaglandin synthesis . the serotonin antagonists ketanserin , methysergide and cyproheptadine partly inhibited the effect of serotonin . the antagonism differed in potency on strips of different origin . the antagonists were ineffective or minimally effective in blocking responses to nerve stimulation . the effect of serotonin was probably mediated by specific serotonin receptors different from the serotonin-s2-receptors predominating in vascular smooth muscle . serotonin is a potential neurotransmitter in lower urinary tract smooth muscle , but its importance in micturition physiology and pathophysiology is unknown . 
the pressure-volume plot and prediction of treatment outcome in female incontinence . a graphic representation of the micturition cycle by a pressure-volume plot has been obtained in 120 women , both incontinent patients and normal controls . the pattern of contraction during voiding allowed prediction of the outcome of treatment . patients with urethral sphincter incompetence and a sustained detrusor contraction had a good result from colposuspension even if detrusor instability was found during filling . where the urethral sphincter was competent , patients with urge incontinence with or without detrusor instability during filling cystometry had a good response to drugs , providing a sustained detrusor contraction was present during voiding . urethral sphincter incompetence was characterised by a low detrusor voiding pressure . 
a 5-year follow-up of undiagnosed haematuria . eighty-four patients with haematuria were seen during 1976 and 1977. this symptom was investigated but no definite cause could be found . five or more years later they were followed up . although some patients had experienced further urological symptoms , none was found to have developed a malignancy in the genito-urinary tract . possible causes of their bleeding are discussed . 
comparison of primary orchiectomy with oestrogen therapy in advanced prostatic cancer . a 2-year follow-up report of a national , prospective prostatic cancer study . two hundred and seventy-seven patients with advanced prostatic cancer were treated by either orchiectomy or oestrogen . during the 2-year follow-up period , the response to treatment was considered more favourable in the oestrogen group , and this response was particularly emphasised in patients with poorly differentiated tumour and metastases at the time of diagnosis . further evaluations included the cardiovascular side effects of oestrogen therapy . 
fracture of the penis and long-term results of surgical treatment . twenty-five patients with fracture of the penis were treated surgically between 1968 and 1984. long-term follow-up was obtained in 17. in no case were there any early post-operative complications . all patients stated that they were achieving normal , painless erections ; two patients developed a slight penile curvature but this did not affect their sexual activities . we strongly recommend early surgical intervention because of these encouraging results . urethral injury associated with the fracture did not occur in this series . 
kaposi 's sarcoma of penis . 
prostatocutaneous urinary fistula to the thigh after retropubic prostatectomy in a patient with polycythaemia rubra vera . 
giant hydronephrosis in a pelvic kidney . 
endometrioid carcinoma of the prostatic utricle . 
torsion of a large epididymal mass . 
bilateral adrenal metastases from renal carcinoma treated surgically with prolonged survival . 
rehabilitation of bladder after 32 years of suprapubic cystostomy . 
inverted y ureter in the male . 
primary lymphoma of the spermatic cord . 
primary renal actinomycosis in the presence of horseshoe kidney . 
an unusual ureteric injury . 
a new method for changing suprapubic catheters . 
report from the phls communicable disease surveillance centre . public health laboratory service [ published erratum appears in br med j ( clin res ed ) 1986 nov 22 ; 293 ( 6558 ) : 1356 ] 
movement deficits caused by hyperexcitable stretch reflexes in spastic humans . spastic patients were instructed to make accurate , rapid ankle dorsiflexion and plantarflexion movements over different distances to a target . ankle position and surface electromyograms ( emgs ) from tibialis anterior ( ta ) and soleus ( sol ) muscles were recorded . in 3 of 8 spastic patients tested , dorsiflexion evoked velocity-dependent activation of the antagonist ( sol ) muscle which impeded the movement to the extent that the limb unintentionally reversed movement direction . we propose that this activation is reflex in origin since it is tightly synchronized , has a large peak amplitude , occurs about 50 ms after the initiation of the movement , and is velocity dependent . one of the 3 patients who had reflex-induced antagonist activation in dorsiflexion also demonstrated sustained clonus during plantarflexion . this usually occurred only if the target had been overshot so that the return of the limb stretched the soleus muscle and triggered clonus . we conclude that in some patients , hyperactive stretch reflexes cause movement deficits . 
the contributions of motor cortex , nigrostriatal dopamine and caudate-putamen to skilled forelimb use in the rat . skilled forelimb use was studied in rats with unilateral lesions of the sensorimotor cortex , the caudate-putamen , or the dopaminergic nigrostriatal bundle , in a task involving reaching for food . limb preference and efficiency were evaluated , as well as the relationship between limb use , spontaneous , and methamphetamine-induced rotation bias , both preoperatively and postoperatively . to induce use of the nonpreferred limb , a bracelet , which prevented reaching but not other movements , was attached to the forearm of the preferred forelimb . whereas small cortical lesions of the forepaw area of the sensorimotor cortex mildly influenced limb preference and use , larger lesions changed preference . furthermore , medium-sized sensorimotor cortex lesions impaired contralateral limb use , although surprising recovery occurred on the forced tests with the bracelet . large cortical lesions abolished effective reaching even on the forced tests . impairments similar to those following sensorimotor cortex lesions were also obtained following small and large caudate-putamen lesions . by contrast , unilateral dopamine depletions not only blocked use of the limb contralateral to the depletion but also impaired use of the ipsilateral limb . there was recovery in use of the ipsilateral forelimb but not the contralateral forelimb . correlational analysis showed a weak relation between methamphetamine-induced rotation and limb preference preoperatively but no significant relation between these two variables postoperatively . the similarity in the deficits following sensorimotor cortex lesions and basal ganglia lesions suggests that skilled forelimb use depends upon a shared neural organization within the two systems . 
frontal lobe dysfunction in parkinson 's disease . the cortical focus of neostriatal outflow . this study investigates the hypothesis that , as a consequence of parkinson 's disease , disturbed caudate outflow will lead to deficits in cognitive functions dependent upon the integrity of the prefrontal cortex , the cortical focus of caudatofugal signals . since parkinson 's disease also involves lesions in extra-striatal midbrain cells which reduce the extrinsic supply of dopamine to this cortical region , such functions are at double risk . forty nondemented parkinsonian patients were drawn from a pool of 100 consecutive patients and matched with 40 normal control subjects according to age , education , iq , and sex . all patients were quantitatively rated on neurological indices of disease . neuropsychological assessment of the patient and normal groups included tests of general intelligence , psychomotor skills , memory , visuospatial and executive functions . no global cognitive decline was observed in the parkinsonian group . moreover , memory and visuospatial abilities were generally intact . a small cluster of deficits emerged , interpreted as reflecting impairment in the ability to spontaneously generate efficient strategies when relying on self-directed task-specific planning . in addition , several tests thought to be sensitive to frontal lobe function distinguished patients with symptoms strongly lateralized to the right versus left side of the body . deficits in strategic planning were later investigated in relation to severity of disease and to patient attributes including iq and age , both of which were relevant to performance on specific tasks . results were compared with previous investigations in parkinsonian patients and discussed from the perspective of both animal and human studies involving damage to the cerebral cortex and basal ganglia . as the prefrontal cortex is thought to play a crucial role in self-directed behavioural planning , the validity of an outflow model in predicting the consequences of caudate nucleus dysfunction was supported . 
the effect of doxorubicin on slow and fast components of the axonal transport system in rats . the study was designed to investigate the changes in axonal transport that result from disturbances in protein synthesis . doxorubicin , an antineoplastic drug which interferes with the function of dna , has a selective effect on peripheral sensory nerves because of the high vascular permeability in the dorsal root ganglia . after the intravenous administration of a moderate dose ( 4 mg / kg ) to male wistar rats , the transport of slow component a ( sca ) was found to be retarded , transport velocity being decreased by 17 % ( 0.85 + / - 0.06 mm / day vs 1.03 + / - 0.06 mm / day in controls ) . the transport kinetics of the fast anterograde and retrograde components ( afc and rfc ) were unchanged after the administration of a dose of 6 mg / kg , although the relative amount of afc was decreased by 27 % ( 3.2 + / - 0.9 % vs 4.4 + / - 1.1 % in controls ) . it is suggested that the neuronopathy induced by doxorubicin is mediated by changes in axonal transport . 
the clinical features of mitochondrial myopathy . the clinical features of 66 patients with histologically defined mitochondrial myopathy are described . the age of onset of symptoms ranged from birth to 68 years , but was before 20 years in 61 % . nineteen patients had similarly affected relatives . three groups of cases could be identified clinically : a combination of progressive external ophthalmoplegia and weakness of the limbs induced or increased by exertion ( 55 % ) ; such limb weakness alone ( 18 % ) ; and those with clinical features , such as ataxia , dementia , deafness , involuntary movements and seizures , predominantly or exclusively arising from the cns ( 27 % ) . there was considerable overlap between these groups , and pigmentary retinopathy , present in 36 % of patients , occurred in all three . at a mean disease duration of twenty years , 9 patients ( all from group 3 ) were severely disabled but 42 were still able to work . in vitro studies of mitochondrial metabolism , performed in 33 cases , most commonly showed deficiencies of the mitochondrial respiratory chain localized to complex i ( 18 patients ) or complex iii ( 9 ) . no typical clinical picture emerged for any of the identifiable biochemical defects . 
focal loss of anterior horn cells in the cervical cord in motor neuron disease . in a three-dimensional study of the distribution of anterior horn cells in the c8 segment of the human spinal cord we have recognized lateral and medial zones of motor neuron groupings , but have not been able to recognize subgroups of neurons within these groupings resembling the anatomical columns described by earlier investigators . this observation does not invalidate the concept of functional groupings within these anterior horn cell pools . in studies of the same segment in cords obtained at autopsy from patients with motor neuron disease , zones of focal loss of motor neurons were identified , without consistent severity or distribution at different sectional levels . these findings imply varying resistance to the disease in different pools of motor neurons . 
effects of early and late transection of the corpus callosum in children . a study of tactile and tactuomotor transfer and integration . five children , aged 6 to 16 years , were tested for unilateral discrimination and interhemispheric transfer of tactile information as well as tactuomotor learning at various intervals before and after therapeutic callosotomy . comparison of preoperative and postoperative capacities revealed that younger children are considerably less affected by the interruption of callosal transmission than older children . bilateral organization of speech and participation of the anterior commissure can largely be excluded as possible compensatory mechanisms . the most plausible explanation for the excellent preservation of interhemispheric integration of tactile functions in the younger patients appears to be continued reliance on ipsilateral pathways . the relatively greater deficits observed in the older children , on the other hand , suggest that sensorimotor functions come to depend more extensively on contralateral pathways as the corpus callosum reaches functional maturity . 
suppressor t cells in family members of patients with multiple sclerosis . previous serial measurements of lymphocyte subpopulations in individuals with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) have demonstrated periodic reductions in the number of okt8 positive ( t8+ ) cells . in this longitudinal study , involving twice monthly samples from each participant and carried out in two phases lasting at least six and three months respectively , we have confirmed that fluctuations in t8+ cells occur in patients with ms and also found a significant reduction in this lymphocyte subpopulation in patients ' spouses but not their siblings , compared with unrelated controls . the changes observed in spouses were related in time to those occurring in patients on 10 / 13 occasions from 5 / 9 families ; no temporal relationship occurred in the remainder . taking two or more low t8+ values as significant , 12 / 13 patients , 7 / 9 spouses , 6 / 13 siblings and 4 / 13 controls ( chi 2 = 12.5 ; p less than 0.01 ) were abnormal at some stage . our results provide indirect evidence for the role of environmental factors in determining certain immunological abnormalities present in patients with ms and illustrate the role of family studies in determining the specificity of these changes to the disease . 
visuospatial function in parkinson 's disease . previous research on visuospatial function in parkinson 's disease is reviewed . the present experiment was designed to test two fundamental aspects of spatial ability , namely right-left discrimination and the manipulation of those concepts in different spatial perspectives . measures of accuracy and reaction time were taken . the performance of patients with parkinson 's disease did not differ from that of normal subjects in the spatial components of the task . neither a review of the literature , nor the results of the present study , give support to the idea of a generalized visuospatial deficit in parkinson 's disease . 
early detection of extravascular lung water in an inhalation injury animal model [ published erratum appears in burns incl therm inj 1987 feb ; 13 ( 1 ) : 82 ] a rabbit inhalation injury model using a dual tracer radioactive isotope technique ( rowland et al . , 1986 ) , has been utilized with small- and medium-sized molecular weight tracers . there is oedema formation at 2 h after smoke inhalation or fluid resuscitation and especially with the combination of inhalation injury and fluid resuscitation [ corrected ] . this oedema appears to have decreased by 24 h post-injury . there does not appear to be any difference between the small- and medium-sized tracers in the transit times of tracer in the lung vascular compartment . the increases in extravascular water volume have been confirmed by gravimetric analyses of the lungs . thus the pulmonary oedema in the rabbit animal model is detectable within 2 h post-injury , with a return towards normal values some time within 24 h if fluid challenged for short periods . fluid resuscitation exacerbates the amount of oedema that developed . the onset of pulmonary oedema may therefore be earlier than previously seen clinically , and fluid resuscitation modifications may be of benefit in smoke inhalation injury . 
functional changes in rat-liver mitochondria during the early phase of burn injury . using succinate as a substrate , the respiratory control ratios of liver mitochondria from burned male sprague-dawley rats with full skin thickness burns covering 20 per cent of the body surface area were increased at 15 , 30 , 45 and 60 min after burn , the peak being at 30 min post-burn . a sham group acted as control . in comparison with the sham group , the specific activity of succinic dehydrogenase was slightly decreased and the activities of cytochromes b and c + c were decreased significantly 30 min after burning . all the results suggest a lack of increased metabolic activity during the early phase of burn injury . 
burn contracture of the neck-axillary region . 
use of scarred flaps and secondary flaps for reconstructive surgery of extensive burns . we report the usefulness of scar flaps and secondary flaps in the surgical repair of extensively burned patients . burn scar contractures repaired with scarred axial pattern flaps , scarred musculocutaneous flaps and scarred fasciocutaneous flaps are described . however , it is our contention that their application should be strictly limited . an example of the use of scarred secondary axial pattern and musculocutaneous flaps for reconstruction of a burned ear is shown . 
evaluation of e and eac rosette-forming cells in patients with thermal injuries . thermal injuries lead to changes in both the cell-mediated and humoral responses of the patient . this study was undertaken to assess these responses in the post-burn period and also to see if bacterial infection altered these responses . it has been concluded that alterations in the cell-mediated and humoral immune responses following thermal injuries are altered by infection and consequently are also important in the healing process . 
a multidisciplinary group approach to counselling the parents of burned children . this study has shown that a multidisciplinary group approach to counselling parents of burned children will decrease parental anxiety , and that medical , psychological and social problems will feature primarily in group discussions . 
epidemiology of industrial burns in brisbane . a retrospective epidemiological study of industrial burns admitted to the royal brisbane hospital was conducted over a period of 7 years . a total of 182 patients were included in this survey--173 males ( 95 per cent ) and 9 females ( 5 per cent ) . the proportion of industrial burns has decreased from 31.5 per cent to 18.5 per cent of total admissions to the burns unit over the past 10 years . fifty per cent of the burns occurred in males less than 30 years old . the average age was 31 years . two-thirds of the burns covered less than 10 per cent of the body and 84 per cent covered less than 20 per cent . while scalds were the commonest cause of industrial burns in our study ( 19.4 per cent ) , flame burns with clothing ignited caused the most extensive burns . face and hands were the most common sites involved . burns to these regions were mainly caused by flame and electrical burns . eye burns comprised 5.5 per cent of the sample and were due to chemicals , gas explosions and electric flash . twenty-six patients ( 14 per cent ) suffered respiratory injury . only one patient out of our series of 182 died . progress has been made in industrial safety in the past few years but carelessness and human error still take their toll . 
epidemiology of severe burn injuries . the epidemiology of severe burns is analysed . from 1 september 1982 to 31 august 1983 75 patients , 27 females and 48 males were admitted to the burns unit in copenhagen . the majority of burns were domestic and fire was the predominant cause . the most vulnerable areas were the arms and the legs , and small children still have the highest incidence of thermal injury . as predisposing factors were of significance in several accidents , the importance of further prevention is stressed . 
lightning injury caused by discharges accompanying flashovers--a clinical and experimental study of death and survival . during the 17 years preceding march 1985 , 140 patients sustained lightning injuries caused by 44 thunderbolts . fifty patients showed evidence of current flow through their bodies . these 50 victims were classified into two groups , the first consisting of 9 victims who showed rupture of their clothes or linear superficial dermal burns along their whole bodies from head to feet , indicating the occurrence of surface flashovers . the remaining 41 patients showed no evidence of this flash effect . it is noteworthy that in the first group 5 of the 9 survived , whereas in the second group only 6 among 41 survived . the result indicates that when a flashover occurs along the whole body , the probability of survival is higher than 50 per cent . the conditions which determine death or survival were investigated experimentally , imposing artificial lightning voltage impulses on rats and developing flashovers on them . the rats survived when the voltage drop caused by flashover occurred immediately after the peak point , and the current waveform exhibited a sharp peak . in contrast , the rats were killed when the voltage drop caused by flashover was delayed by more than 20 microseconds , and the current waveform showed a blunt cone shape . it has been concluded that a fast flashover appreciably diminishes the energy dissipation within the body and consequently results in survival . 
calcinosis cutis--a rare late complication of burns . pillars of calcification are rarely found in the skin . an interesting case is described where rows of new bone developed in the skin which had been grafted 31 years previously to cover partial skin thickness burns of the shin . the problems of heterotropic ossification are discussed . 
abdominal visceral perforation secondary to electrical injury : case report and review of the literature . a patient with a vesico-enteric fistula was successfully treated with resection of the small intestine and dome of the bladder and drainage of the intervening abscess . a search of the literature reveals this to be a very unusual complication of high-voltage electrical injury . 
the use of games in occupational therapy of hand burns . the need for active range of motion in hand burns is obvious and through adapted games the patient 's interest is aroused and provides an incentive for active participation in his / her therapeutic programme . all the games are for individual players , on different intellectual levels , and provide different active ranges of motion : for fingers , wrist , elbow and shoulder . most of the games were made by a former patient , now retired , copied from games in the collection of the occupational therapist , and some of the games are of israeli idea and manufacture . all the games can be gas autoclaved and therefore be used from patient to patient . the games also provide a much needed outlet for intellectual stimuli and distraction from the burns unit and all it signifies . 
the potential damaging effects of light on the eye ( part i ) . the electromagnetic spectrum consists of radiant energy that is classified according to specific wavelengths . man is constantly exposed to a portion of the electromagnetic spectrum , particularly to radiation in the ultraviolet , visible and infrared regions . the tissues of the eye and skin are particularly sensitive to the non-ionizing wavelengths of radiant energy . although both tissues possess endogenous protective mechanisms to minimize the effects of such exposure , problems still occur due to the absorption of radiation . the cornea , lens and retina have been shown to be susceptible to damage from light in the ultraviolet , visible and infrared range . part i of this two-part article examines the structures of the eye that are most susceptible to light damage ; part ii , which will be published in the next issue of the journal , focuses on eye protection . 
a new variable suction system with finger-tip control . we have developed a variable suction system for irrigation , aspiration and vitrectomy . the system is regulated by the operator 's finger-tip . 
supramaximal horizontal rectus surgery in the management of third and sixth nerve palsy . supramaximal medial and lateral rectus surgery was performed to correct horizontal deviations in seven cases of sixth nerve palsy and three cases of third nerve palsy , with satisfactory results in most cases . the advantages and disadvantages of such procedures are discussed . 
nerve fibre bundle visual field defects and intracranial mass lesions . nerve fibre bundle visual field defects are the hallmark of pathology at the optic nerve head or retina . in the present series , six eyes of four patients with large intracranial mass lesions demonstrated such field defects with visual acuity spared in three of the involved eyes . in no cases did visual function in the opposite eye offer a clue to the localization of the lesion . 
superior oblique myokymia : when treatment is necessary . a 56-year-old woman presented with a 10-year history of torsional diplopia and right monocular oscillopsia . these symptoms , which had been intermittent at first , continued practically uninterrupted during the last 2 years . she was diagnosed as having superior oblique myokymia of the right eye . adequate trials of oral carbamazepine , baclofen and phenytoin were unsuccessful in suppressing her symptoms . one year after her initial presentation , she underwent a right superior oblique tenectomy and a right inferior oblique recession . she eventually required a second operation on her other eye to cure her of an annoying diplopia on down-gaze . 
signet-ring cell lymphoma in the orbit : a case report and review . the authors report on the first case of signet-ring cell lymphoma involving the orbit . this variant of non-hodgkin 's lymphoma contains either vacuolated or eosinophilic cytoplasmic inclusions that squeeze the nucleus to one side of the cell . in this case , the inclusions were eosinophilic and stained positively for pas , immunoglobulin m ( igm ) heavy chain and kappa light chain . electron microscopy showed granular electron-dense material trapped within distended loops of rough endoplasmic reticulum . twenty-two cases of signet-ring cell lymphoma previously reported elsewhere in the body are reviewed , and their clinical significance is discussed . 
daytime vehicle lights [ letter ] 
" vitamin b3 " [ letter ] 
balancing the risks : legionella pneumophila pneumonia and tap water scalds in the home [ editorial ] 
aeronautics act and the doctor-patient relationship . 
genetic information and the law : constraints , liability and rights . 
drug-induced acute interstitial nephritis : report of 10 cases . between january 1979 and june 1985 , 10 patients with acute allergic interstitial nephritis were seen in a clinical nephrology service at a large regional hospital . the onset of renal failure was temporally related to the use of a drug : a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent ( nsaid ) ( in four patients ) , cimetidine ( in three ) , antibiotics ( in two ) or allopurinol ( in one ) . the onset of renal failure was acute in three patients and insidious in seven . two patients also exhibited marked proteinuria . clinical features such as fever , rash , hematuria , pyuria with or without eosinophiluria , and mild to marked proteinuria had led to suspicion of the disease . the diagnosis was confirmed by renal biopsy findings of inflammatory cells , predominantly lymphocytes , plasma cells and eosinophils . three patients required hemodialysis ; two of them received steroids as well . steroid therapy was also used in two patients with nsaid-induced proteinuria . renal function improved in nine patients by 35 days , but one patient continued to have slow but progressive deterioration of renal function . acute interstitial nephritis can be distinguished from other forms of acute renal failure by heavy renal uptake of gallium 67 , maximal 48 hours or more after injection . the improvement in renal function after discontinuation of the implicated drug , the characteristic histopathological findings of allergic interstitial nephritis , and the presence of eosinophils and sometimes ige in the blood suggest a hypersensitivity reaction . 
salmonella nima in british columbia . 
supplementary statement on influenza vaccination in 1986-87 . 
medical school cutbacks would be unfair to young canadians , conference told . 
doctors and torture : a tortuous issue . 
philosophy of medicine [ letter ] 
first-trimester fetal diagnosis : prudential ethics [ letter ] 
" silent angina " in the elderly [ letter ] 
legal implications of premenstrual syndrome : a canadian perspective [ letter ] 
acute hepatitis after isoflurane anesthesia [ letter ] 
the dangers of off-road vehicles to young drivers [ editorial ] 
it 's time to put universities first . 
ribavirin : indications for use in pediatrics . infectious diseases and immunization committee , canadian paediatric society . 
changing motivation in severely suicidal patients . while the ambiguity of suicidal patients ' stated motivations has been studied in some detail , less attention has been given to the changeability of their motivations . twenty-six patients who had taken an overdose of paraquat , a highly lethal herbicide , were questioned about their motivation at the time of admission and 24 hours and 3 , 7 and 10 days later . although 25 patients claimed that they wished to die at the time of admission , all of the 14 surviving patients wished to live at the time of discharge from hospital . of the 12 patients who died , 6 stated that they no longer wished to die in the last interview before their death . during the following year 3 of the 14 surviving patients killed themselves . the findings emphasize the importance of thoroughly assessing all aspects of the suicidal patient 's situation in determining risks . the patient 's stated intentions should be but one factor considered . 
injuries associated with off-road vehicles among children . off-road vehicles have attained growing popularity , expanding markets and increasing rates of associated injury , especially among young people . in 1984-85 , 148 patients were treated at the children 's hospital of eastern ontario , ottawa , for injuries suffered in off-road vehicle accidents . the average age of the patients was 14 years . soft-tissue injuries occurred in 33 patients , 21 of whom had severe injuries . there were 179 fractures in 133 patients . one patient died as a result of his injuries . the most common mechanism of injury was losing control of and tumbling from the machine . seventeen patients were struck by their own vehicles , and 39 collided with objects such as cars , trees or people . the health care costs of these accidents are no less serious than the concerns for the appropriate legislation to protect consumers , particularly the young . 
pasteurella multocida septicemia during pregnancy . 
reduction of prothrombin and partial thromboplastin times with trazodone . 
ovarian torsion related to sudden infant death . 
laboratory reports of herpesvirus infections in canada in 1985. 
ethical issues in infanticide of severely defective infants . 
chromosome studies in preleukemic states . v . prognostic significance of single versus multiple abnormalities . the prognostic value of marrow chromosome findings was examined in 242 patients with preleukemic myelodysplastic syndromes ( mds ) or myeloproliferative disorders ( mpd ) , with emphasis on the significance of single versus multiple karyotypic changes . in both groups , the results showed that patients with multiple chromosome abnormalities in a marrow clone had a very high probability of early death , from progression to leukemia or from other complications of hematopoietic dysfunction . conversely , in patients with a hemic clone having only one karyotypic alteration ( involving a single chromosome or single translocation ) , survival over 2 years was only slightly reduced as compared to those without chromosome abnormality . the only single karyotypic alteration perhaps associated with a markedly shortened survival was monosomy 7. these findings suggest that the conclusions of previous studies concerning the grave consequences of chromosome alterations in preleukemia largely reflect the clinical significance of clones with multiple cytogenetic changes . prior knowledge of the karyotypic status of preleukemic patients should be helpful in evaluating current attempts to find effective treatment for these difficult disorders . 
recombinant leukocyte a interferon ( rifn-alpha a ) in the treatment of disseminated malignant melanoma . analysis of complete and long-term responding patients . ninety-six patients with disseminated malignant melanoma received thrice weekly intramuscular injections of leukocyte a recombinant interferon ( rifn-alpha a , roferon-a , hoffmann la roche ) at doses of 12 x 10 ( 6 ) u / m2 or 50 x 10 ( 6 ) u / m2 with or without cimetidine as an immunorestorative agent . four patients , two with prior chemotherapy , demonstrated either a complete response ( 3 months , soft tissue metastasis ) or exceptionally durable response durations ( months ) of 29+ ( soft tissue ; lung lesion ) , 31+ ( soft tissue ) , and 35+ ( soft tissue ; liver lesions ) . none of these patients had particularly characteristic clinical parameters . as noted previously , using chemotherapy , a small proportion of patients with advanced malignant melanoma , despite prior therapy , may achieve prolonged objective regression with rifn-alpha a . 
nongerminomatous malignant germ cell tumors in children . a review of 89 cases from the pediatric oncology group , 1971-1984 . clinical and morphologic features of 89 cases of childhood yolk sac tumor ( ys ) and embryonal carcinoma ( ec ) ( 29 associated with teratomas ) submitted to the rare tumor registry of the southwest oncology group ( 1971-1979 ) or the pediatric oncology group ( 1980-1984 ) between 1971 and 1984 were reviewed and submitted to statistical analysis . this review showed an improved survival for each 5-year period regardless of tumor site , no statistically significant difference between " pure " tumors and those mixed with other teratomatous components , no statistically significant difference between ys and ec in children , a better than reported prognosis for sacrococcygeal tumors occurring after the neonatal period , a particularly poor prognosis for neonatal " benign " sacrococcygeal teratomas resected without coccygectomy when they recur as ys , excellent survival for all testicular tumors regardless of age or the presence of ec , and the occurrence of mediastinal tumors in females . 
phase ii trial of methylglyoxal bis ( guanylhydrazone ) ( mgbg ) in advanced head and neck cancer . methylglyoxal bis ( guanylhydrazone ) ( mgbg ) is an inhibitor of polyamine synthesis . in vitro studies demonstrate the accumulation of some tumor cells in s and g2 phases of the cell cycle . nineteen patients with advanced head and neck cancer were entered in a phase ii trial of mgbg . mgbg , 500 mg / m2 , was administered as a brief intravenous infusion weekly for 4 weeks , then every 2 weeks . dose modifications were based on cumulative toxicity after 2 weekly treatments . all but three patients had prior exposure to chemotherapy for disease recurrence . of 17 patients evaluable for response and toxicity , one brief partial response was observed . the most common toxicities were mild to moderate nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and stomatitis . myelosuppression occurred in three patients . dose modifications were required in four patients ; a maximum dose of 700 mg / m2 was tolerated . the results of four other phase ii single and combination chemotherapy trials of mgbg in head and neck cancer are reviewed . the single agent response rate in 59 patients was 22 % ( range , 6 % -41 % ) . the poor response rate observed in this trial was similar to that in other trials in which a heavily pretreated group of patients was evaluated . it is concluded that single agent mgbg is not a useful drug in heavily pretreated recurrent disease patients . however , because of its biochemical effects , further testing in combination with cycle specific agents and in larger numbers of patients with minimal prior treatment may be warranted . 
clinical course of breast cancer patients with osseous metastasis treated with combination chemotherapy . between july 1973 and december 1979 , 1171 patients with metastatic breast cancer were treated with doxorubicin-containing chemotherapy . of those patients , 195 had osseous metastases only . upon initial diagnosis , 48 % had osteolytic metastases ; 13 % had osteoblastic metastases ; 38 % had mixed metastases ; and 1 % had diffuse osteoporosis without any obvious bone destruction . the most common sites of involvement were the dorsal spine ( 62 % ) , lumbosacral spine ( 72 % ) , and pelvis ( 79 % ) . objective response to chemotherapy was observed in 59 % of patients ; complete responses were noted in 7 % , and partial responses in 52 % . the median survival was 28 months ( range , 1-118 months ) . the median time lapse between the start of chemotherapy and disease progression was 14 months ( range , 1-109 months ) . in 32 patients who responded to the treatment , chemotherapy was discontinued after 2 years , and their median duration of continued remission at 39 and 75 months after the completion of therapy . the incidence of pathological fractures was 57 % ; the most common sites were the spine , which sustained compression fractures , and the ribs . the incidences of hypercalcemia and spinal cord compression due to metastases were 19 % and 10 % , respectively . 
chemotherapeutic complete remission in patients with metastatic ovarian dysgerminoma . potential for cure and preservation of reproductive capacity . two patients with metastatic dysgerminoma of the ovary were treated with a combination of etoposide , bleomycin , and cisplatin at the university of texas m.d. anderson hospital and tumor institute at houston . both patients achieved a complete remission . patient 1 developed a massive recurrence in the para-aortic lymph nodes 21 months after diagnosis and treatment with right salpingo-oophorectomy alone . she received four cycles of chemotherapy and is free of disease 21 months from the start of chemotherapy . patient 2 had stage iii dysgerminoma and a lymphangiogram positive for tumor in the para-aortic lymph nodes . after surgery she received three cycles of chemotherapy and is free of disease 20 months from the start of chemotherapy . both complete remissions were documented with second-look laparotomy . chemotherapy may be an alternative to radiotherapy for the treatment of metastatic dysgerminoma and should also be considered for selected patients with stage i disease . a literature review further supports the conclusion that additional clinical trials might expand the indications for chemotherapy in patients with this disease . 
long-term survival and morbidity in patients with metastatic malignant germ cell tumors treated with cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy . forty-three of 79 patients treated for clinically metastatic germ cell cancer survived for a median of 66 months ( range , 52-83 ) . in patients without previous chemotherapy the 5-year survival rate was 69 % , whereas only 32 % of patients with prior chemotherapy survived for 5 years . limited disease , complete clinical response , histopathologically proven postchemotherapy tumor necrosis or complete resectability of a posttreatment mature teratoma indicated a favorable prognosis in patients without prior chemotherapy . only 20 % to 30 % of the patients with less than a clinical complete response or with posttreatment residual malignant tumor can be salvaged by second line therapy . posttreatment mature teratoma should be resected completely whenever possible , as this condition may lead to reactivation of the malignancy even after several years . raynaud-like phenomena and / or gastrointestinal problems are the main long-term sequel ( 10 % -15 % ) after modern multimodality treatment of advanced germ cell cancer ( fertility-related problems are not considered here ) . in the majority of surviving patients , the lifestyle seems unaffected by the previous intensive treatment , evaluated about 5 years after discontinuation of all therapy . 
infants younger than 1 year of age with rhabdomyosarcoma . of a total of 1561 patients registered in the intergroup rhabdomyosarcoma study ( irs ) as of may 1983 , 78 patients ( 5 % ) were younger than 1 year of age . these infants did not differ from the older children ( 1-20 years of age ) in male / female ratio , clinical grouping , or survival rates . infants younger than 1 year of age had a significantly greater frequency of undifferentiated sarcoma , 18 % versus 7 % in older children ( p less than 0.005 ) . infants also had a significantly greater proportion of cancers with botryoid pathology , 10 % versus 4 % in older children ( p less than 0.005 ) . when reviewed by the newly proposed irs cytopathologic classification , there was no difference in pathologic types between the two age groups . infants younger than 1 year of age had a higher rate of bladder-prostate-vagina primary tumor sites than older children , 24 % versus 10 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . in addition , infants tended to receive less of the prescribed doses of chemotherapy and radiation therapy than older children , and to develop more toxicity to treatment than older children . despite these differences , the overall survival curve for the two age groups appears to be similar . in contrast to wilms ' tumor and neuroblastoma , in which age ( less than 1 year ) is a favorable prognostic factor , age does not appear to be an important prognostic factor in rhabdomyosarcoma . 
treatment of advanced stage mycosis fungoides with bleomycin , doxorubicin , and methotrexate with topical nitrogen mustard ( bam-m ) . ten patients with advanced stage ( tnm iib-ivb ) mycosis fungoides were treated with a combination chemotherapy program consisting of bleomycin and methotrexate weekly , doxorubicin every 3 weeks , and topical nitrogen mustard daily ( bam-m ) . seven patients obtained histologically documented complete remissions ranging from 4 to 105+ months in duration . median survival is 16.5+ months . three patients in whom splenomegaly was detected during their staging evaluation underwent splenectomy . these three patients have had unmaintained disease-free survivals of 36+ , 100+ , and 105+ months . this study indicates that bam-m is effective therapy for advanced stage mycosis fungoides and suggests that the therapeutic role of splenectomy should be evaluated further . 
value of gallium scans and lymphangiography in non-hodgkin 's lymphoma of the waldeyer 's ring . in 37 patients with seemingly localized non-hodgkin 's lymphoma of the waldeyer 's ring ( wr-nhl ) , lymphangiography ( lag ) and / or gallium-67 scans ( ga-67 scans ) were done . before these procedures , 20 patients were diagnosed as stage i , and 17 as stage ii . lag was done for 30 , and ga-67 scans for 32 , 25 of whom had both . five patients ( 16 % ) were upstaged to stage iii or iv by ga-67 scans . only one ( 3 % ) had abnormal lag findings , in whom ga-67 scans also showed abnormal accumulation in the para-aortic region . because of this low positive rate , lag is not recommended for staging of wr-nhl . 
cell mediated and humoral immune responses in oral submucous fibrosis . cell-mediated and humoral immune responses were assessed in 50 patients with oral submucous fibrosis ( osmf ) and the results were compared with those of 50 patients with oral-leukoplakia , 50 oral cancer patients , and 50 normal healthy adult controls . the number of high-affinity rosette-forming cells ( harfc ) was found to be significantly decreased in osmf and oral cancer , whereas the number of total rosette-forming cells ( trfc ) remained unaltered . levels of serum iga , igd , and ige were found to be elevated both in osmf and oral cancer . immunologic derangements were found to be more pronounced in oral cancer than in osmf . the enumeration of harfc along with the estimation of serum levels of iga , igd , and ige indicates that osmf can be an intermediary stage in the malignant transformation of a normal cell , and that these parameters may serve as markers for the early detection of oral cancer . 
tuberculosis-associated hemophagocytic syndrome . a systemic process . virus-associated hemophagocytic syndrome has been recently identified as a benign , reactive histiocytic proliferation distinct from rappaport 's malignant hystiocytosis . other etiologic agents , including different bacteria , have also been identified . three autopsy cases of hemophagocytic syndrome associated to acute tuberculous sepsis are presented . benign histiocytic proliferation with striking hemophagocytosis was present in a disseminated , multisystemic pattern in all three cases . a relationship between systemic histiocytic proliferation and an anergic status in these patients is suggested . 
malignant lymphoma of bone . a total of 422 patients with malignant lymphoma of bone who were seen at the mayo clinic from 1907 through 1982 were placed into four major groups based on stage of disease . there was one group with primary lymphoma of bone , one group with multifocal osseous lymphoma , and two groups with lymphoma of bone and nodal or soft tissue ( or both ) disease . the last-mentioned two groups were separated on the basis of time of onset of osseous lymphoma in relation to the nonosseous disease . the stage of disease was the single most important prognostic indicator of overall survival in malignant lymphoma of bone . the 5- and 10-year survival rates were , respectively , 58 % and 53 % for patients with primary bone lymphoma , 22 % and 12.5 % for patients with bone and nodal or soft tissue ( or both ) disease , and 42 % and 35 % for patients with multifocal osseous disease . features having no significant prognostic value were sex of the patient , histologic grade of the lymphoma ( according to the working formulation and the kiel system ) , and presence of t-cell features or cleaved cells ( or both ) . this study is not able to adequately address efficacy of treatment . in fact , treatment may be very important in outcome . 
meningeal carcinomatosis in head and neck cancer . report of six cases and review of the literature . head and neck cancer has rarely been reported to be a cause of meningeal carcinomatosis . these tumors are known more for their local invasiveness rather than distant metastasis . this would appear to preclude meningeal involvement , but close proximity to multiple cranial nerves may provide an access to the meninges . six cases of head and neck cancer with meningeal invasion are presented . all six cases had malignant cells in their cerebrospinal fluid . three cases had malignant cells recovered from a ventricular specimen after lumbar punctures were negative . the most common clinical finding on presentation was cranial nerve involvement . the optic nerve was involved most often with nerves vi and v the next most frequent . headache was present in four patients and seizures occurred in two . no patient had meningismus . our current treatment plan involves insertion of an ommaya reservoir and intraventricular methotrexate . only patients whose primary head and neck tumor shows a response to systemic therapy undergo ommaya placement . meningeal carcinomatosis in head and neck cancer may be more prevalent than previously thought and the likely mechanism is via direct extension rather than hematogenous spread . 
serum testosterone level of patients with gastric carcinoma before and after gastrectomy . the serum testosterone level ( stl ) was determined in 84 male and 32 female patients with gastric carcinoma and in 58 male and 20 female patients with benign diseases as a control group . the stl of the male patients with carcinoma was lower ( 446 + / - 149 ng / dl ) than that of the male control group ( 532 + / - 132 ng / dl ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . even 17 male patients of the early carcinoma showed lower stl ( 440 + / - 117 ng / dl ) than the normal group ( p less than 0.001 ) . in the female patients , it was also lower ( 31.6 + / - 16.0 ng / dl ) than in the control group ( 46.3 + / - 15.3 ng / dl ) ( p less than 0.005 ) . the postoperative stl of the cases surviving the gastrectomy was higher than the preoperative data in 32 male patients ( p less than 0.005 ) as well as in 12 female patients ( 0.025 greater than p greater than 0.01 ) , whereas it obviously decreased in the patients who died of recurrence . therefore , it appears that gastric carcinoma decreases the stl by some mechanism . 
total and lipid-associated serum sialic acid levels in cancer patients with different primary sites and differing degrees of metastatic involvement . serum total sialic acid ( tsa ) and lipid-associated sialic acid ( lasa ) levels have drawn considerable interest because of carbohydrate aberrations in malignant cells . the current investigation determined the tsa , lasa , total protein ( tp ) , and tsa / tp values for 171 cancer patients with various primary sites and differing degrees of metastatic disease , 102 patients with nonmalignant diseases ( pathologic controls ) , and 42 normal individuals . data analysis indicated significant ( p less than 0.01 ) increases in the mean ( + / - sd ) tsa and tsa / tp values in the cancer patients ( 78.1 + / - 19.2 mg / dl and 12.4 + / - 3.8 mg / g , respectively ) and in the pathologic controls ( 76.0 + / - 7.5 mg / dl and 11.6 + / - 2.5 mg / g ) when compared to the normal controls ( 67.3 + / - 7.1 mg / dl and 9.0 + / - 1.1 mg / g ) , and a significant decrease in the mean tp values in the cancer patients ( 6.4 + / - 1.1 g / dl ) and pathologic controls ( 6.6 + / - 1.1 g / dl ) when compared to normal controls ( 7.5 + / - 0.5 g / dl ) . no significant difference was observed between groups in lasa values . further analysis of the data in patient subgroups based on the tissue involved , specific disease , or severity of the malignancy indicated that the lack of specificity of the markers was due primarily to restricted subgroups and that the sensitivity of tsa and tsa / tp increased as the malignancy became more severe . the results show that tsa / tp was the most useful of the markers tested for detecting malignancies . this marker should prove useful for monitoring malignant disease recurrence and / or progression and for evaluating the effectiveness of various therapeutic approaches . 
chondrosarcoma of the temporal bone . diagnosis and treatment of 13 cases and review of the literature . chondrosarcoma of the temporal bone is a rare lesion . clinically it has been confused with multiple sclerosis , glomus jugulare tumors , meningioma , and chordomas . the cranial nerve palsies frequently observed with the tumors are related to the anatomic locations of the tumors . thirteen patients with this entity are presented and the eleven other cases in the literature are reviewed . histologically the tumors are low grade and exhibit myxoid features . the myxoid features must be differentiated from chordoma and chondroid chordoma . the tumor locations preclude surgical excision and conventional radiation therapy can cause unacceptable neurologic sequelae . proton beam therapy has been effective in short-term results and appears capable of avoiding serious neurologic side effects . 
diffuse subependymal periventricular metastases . report of three cases . three clinicopathologic cases with a remarkable pattern of extensive diffuse subependymal periventricular spread of cerebral metastases from solid systemic cancer are reported . two patients had a small cell carcinoma of the lung . in the third case , the histologic features of the brain metastases were consistent with a neuron-specific enolase-positive , small cell anaplastic carcinoma . involvement of the choroid plexus and leptomeninges was moderate or absent . intraparenchymatous nodular metastases were not found except in one case in which rare nodular superficial cortical metastases were present . the clinical data were nonspecific except for orthostatic hypotension , in one patient , which was probably due to the infiltration of the floor of the third and fourth ventricles . results of the cerebrospinal fluid examination , available in two cases , were normal . the only diagnostic investigation was contrast-enhanced computed tomography scanning . 
prognostic factors in neuroblastomas treated in denmark from 1943 to 1980. a statistical estimate of prognosis based on 253 cases . multivariate analysis on an unselected patient population consisting of all 253 children treated for neuroblastoma in denmark during 1943 to 1980 shows that stage , age , and treatment given are independent prognostic variables . calendar year of diagnosis , sex of the patient , and site of primary tumor were not significant prognostic factors . further analysis shows that multimodal treatment with surgery , irradiation , and chemotherapy , especially in patients older than 1 year of age with stage ii disease , has influenced the survival significantly . the fact that age at diagnosis and the administration of chemotherapy have independent prognostic significance can be explained by the theory that all neuroblastomas are virtually congenital ; therefore , the difference in age at diagnosis largely reflects the difference in growth rates of the tumor . thus , according to this theory , age may be a measure of the probability of micrometastases in addition to the clinical extent or stage of the disease , as it represents the duration of the disease . additional chemotherapy may thus have eradicated these micrometastases in the older children , since the age influence on stage ii disease disappeared when multimodal treatment was given in this study . the implications for treatment policy are discussed in view of this theory . 
familial breast cancer in males . a case report and review of the literature . the occurrence of breast cancer in two related males , an uncle and nephew is reported . a review of previously reported cases of male breast cancer occurring in families and the association with other cancers in other family members is included . in previous reports on breast cancer in males , familial or hereditary factors have not generally been recognized as a major contributing factor . of ten families reported ( including our own ) where there is sufficient information given , six families ( 60 % ) had females with breast cancer . it appears there are some families in which males as well as females have an increased risk of developing breast cancer . 
pleuroperitoneal shunting for malignant pleural effusions . traditional therapy for malignant pleural effusions includes thoracentesis or tube drainage with instillation of irritants to achieve pleurodesis . this can require a lengthy hospitalization , causes pain and discomfort , and has an appreciable failure rate . because of these drawbacks , the authors used a shunting device to transfer fluid to the peritoneal cavity in 17 patients with malignant pleural effusions . eleven patients had undergone previous therapeutic thoracenteses and three had chest tube placement with failed sclerosis . the shunt was a subcutaneous valved pump chamber with attached pleural and peritoneal catheters , which used manual compression to transfer fluid against the normal abdominal / pleural pressure gradient . operative placement under local or general anesthesia was performed without complication . five patients achieved minimal benefit , either because of moribund status or their inability to compress the pump effectively . in the other 12 patients , there was radiographic evidence of diminished or stabilized pleural effusion ; respiratory symptoms were effectively palliated , and no further treatment for their effusion was required . peritoneal dissemination of malignant cells has not been clinically detected . we feel that pleuroperitoneal shunting is a valid new method for treatment of malignant pleural effusions which can effectively palliate respiratory symptoms with low morbidity . advantages include the absence of external tubing and the possibility for only a short hospitalization or even outpatient placement . shunting is applicable for patients who are able to perform the requisite pumping and is particularly suitable for those with trapped lungs or who have failed attempted pleural sclerosis . 
cardiac abnormalities in patients with diffuse malignant pleural mesothelioma . many patients with diffuse malignant pleural mesothelioma have dyspnea or chest pain . cardiac symptomatology is frequently difficult to differentiate from symptoms of pleuropulmonary disease . to better define the clinical characteristics of cardiac involvement in patients with mesothelioma , the electrocardiographic ( ekg ) and echocardiographic findings in 64 patients with biopsy-proven malignant pleural mesothelioma were reviewed . a total of 19 / 64 ( 30 % ) patients had autopsy studies available for review . the ekg was abnormal in 55 patients ( 89 % ) . over half ( 60 % ) had an arrhythmia , including sinus tachycardia ( 42 % ) , premature atrial and ventricular contractions ( 13 % ) , atrial fibrillation ( 3 % ) , and atrial flutter ( 1 % ) . over one third ( 37 % ) had a conduction abnormality , including bundle branch block ( 13 % ) , hemiblock ( 8.5 % ) , and incomplete right bundle branch block ( 13 % ) . echocardiography revealed a total of 13 patients with pericardial effusions , two with pericardial thickening , and one with an anterior sonolucent space . of 19 autopsies , cardiac invasion was found in 14 ( 74 % ) , with more than half to the pericardium and more than one quarter to the myocardium . it is concluded that : clinical cardiac abnormalities occur in the great majority of patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma , pathologic cardiac invasion occurs in the great majority of patients with pleural mesothelioma , and the ekg and echocardiogram are helpful in differentiating cardiac involvement from progressive pulmonary disease in patients with pleural mesothelioma . 
monitoring intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin treatment of superficial bladder carcinoma by serial flow cytometry . simultaneous urinary flow cytometry , cytologic , and cystoscopic examinations were performed at 3-month intervals for a minimum of 1 year on 29 patients receiving intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) treatment of superficial bladder carcinoma . flow cytometry ( fcm ) and cytology were concordant in 57 of 103 examinations ; both fcm and cytology were positive in 38 instances , and carcinoma was confirmed by biopsy in 35 ( 92.1 % ) . in 16 instances fcm and cytology were negative , but carcinoma was present on biopsy in 5 ( 31.3 % ) . three examinations were suspicious by both techniques . the 46 determinations with discordant fcm and cytology were subdivided into pathologically confirmed recurrences ( 25 instances ) and no evidence of pathologic and / or cystoscopic disease ( 21 instances ) . in the 25 instances of recurrences , fcm was positive in 18 ( 72.0 % ) , suspicious in 3 ( 12.0 % ) , and negative in 4 ( 16.0 % ) , while cytology was positive in 3 ( 12.0 % ) , suspicious in 9 ( 36.0 % ) , and negative in 13 ( 52.0 % ) . most patients had a severe bcg-induced inflammatory response that caused an elevation of the hyperdiploid population , believed secondary to epithelial regeneration and proliferation . in the 21 instances without detectable recurrence , hyperploidy led to a relatively high proportion of positive ( 15 ) and suspicious ( 4 ) results by fcm , but only eight had distinct aneuploid populations . it is possible that this latter group , at least , is harboring occult carcinoma . conventional cytology in the nonrecurrent group was positive in 1 ( 4.8 % ) , suspicious in 7 ( 33.3 % ) , and negative in 13 ( 61.9 % ) . in those instances when tumor was confirmed by biopsy , the false-negative rate for fcm was 19.7 % ; the false-negative rate for cytology was 40.9 % . thus , fcm appears to be more sensitive but less specific than conventional cytology , having a lower false-negative but a higher false-positive rate . although serial fcm provides an objective quantitative measure of aneuploid stemlines and hyperdiploid populations in bladder irrigation specimens and can be helpful in following intravesical bcg therapy for superficial bladder carcinoma , it should still be used with conventional cytology . the greatest difficulty with fcm at present , as with conventional cytology , is in cases of marked inflammation . the results reported here were obtained under the most stringent conditions and represent the minimum level of accuracy . potential improvements in the technique , with the addition of immunologic or other markers , hold hope of further increasing the accuracy of fcm . 
transitional cell carcinomas of the urinary bladder . effects of preoperative irradiation on morphology . the effects of preoperative irradiation on the morphology of transitional cell carcinomas ( tccs ) were evaluated by studying the pretreatment biopsy and radical cystectomy specimens from 35 patients . twenty-six of these patients had received 2000 rad within the week preceding surgery , and nine patients had received no preoperative treatment . the frequency of bladders without residual tcc was 23 % for irradiated and 22 % for nonirradiated cases . of the tccs classified as papillary in the biopsy specimens and irradiated , 79 % lacked a papillary component at cystectomy , but in no case was the invasive component eliminated or regression from muscle invasion to superficial tcc noticed . flat carcinoma in situ ( cis ) did not respond to irradiation . at cystectomy nuclear pleomorphism was greater than at biopsy in 60 % of the irradiated tccs , whereas all nonirradiated cases retained the same grade as at biopsy . in addition , irradiation induced squamous differentiation in neoplastic cells only , without affecting the nonneoplastic urothelium . 
the right heart . 
assessment of right and left heart interactions : application of the resistance ratio in chronic congestive heart failure . 
effect of the left ventricle on the right ventricle . the importance of the once-obscure right ventricle is becoming evident . even in disorders that primarily affect the left ventricle , the once-considered-passive conduit has proved essential for maintenance of normal cardiac output . in coronary artery disease , the function of the right ventricle is affected by both its circulation and the after-load placed on it by dysfunction of the left ventricle . in congestive heart failure , right ventricular function relates to functional capacity , whereas left ventricular function does not , and right ventricular ejection fraction is a useful prognostic guide in these patients . in mitral and aortic valvular disease , the role of the right ventricle is only now becoming evident , and the precise interplay of all factors has yet to be explained . in systemic hypertension , it is likely that the pulmonary circulation is affected by the same humoral factors that elevate systemic pressures . 
the pathology of the right heart in chronic hypertrophy and failure . 
perioperative right heart failure : etiology and pathophysiology . a considerable amount of literature has been devoted to compromise of the right ventricle in spontaneous myocardial infarction . little information is available regarding disproportionate dysfunction of the right ventricle associated with cardiac operation and the recovery period therefrom . recognition of the problem is of paramount importance , if support measures are to be implemented . a great deal has yet to be learned regarding the appropriate support for the acutely failing right ventricle . much remains to be accomplished regarding the assessment of right ventricle reserve , defining the role of risk factors , and quantitating the value of measures to optimally protect the right ventricle from injury during the perioperative period . recognizing that the integrity of the right ventricle can be altered by numerous preoperative , perioperative and postoperative factors will provide an enlightened disposition on the part of the surgical team . awareness of these considerations in the planning and conduct of surgical procedures should reduce morbidity and mortality from perioperative right ventricular failure . the imposition of new or unexpected morbidity during operation on a relatively unrelated problem represents surgical imperfection . appropriate effort toward minimizing insult of the right ventricle could result in significantly decreasing the incidence and severity of perioperative right ventricular failure before the impetus of the continuing clinical problem dictates improvement in techniques to more appropriately treat this frequently preventable problem . 
perioperative right heart failure : treatment . when right ventricular failure prohibits separation from cardiopulmonary bypass , standard methods of increasing pulmonary blood flow should be employed , including correction of hypoxia and acidosis , volume loading , and inotropic support of the right ventricle . infusion of pulmonary vasodilators--particularly low-dose nitroprusside--should be used if the pulmonary vascular resistance is elevated . if pulmonary blood flow remains unsatisfactory , systemic intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation should be employed . in refractory cases , right-atrial-to-pulmonary-artery bypass using the bio-medicus centrifugal pump is the recommended therapy for those centers that do not have the pierce-donachy pneumatic ventricular assist-pump available . for refractory right ventricular failure following the surgical repair of congenital cardiac defects in which the placement of right atrial and pulmonary artery cannulae is not technically feasible , use of high-frequency high-volume ventilation appears to be quite promising . utilization of pulmonary artery counterpulsation or the creation of an atrial septal defect may also be lifesaving , but is not recommended as the therapy of choice . 
right ventricular failure associated with left ventricular failure . rv and lv failure frequently coexist . experimental evidence suggests that rv failure results from a primary insult to the right ventricle and an increase in pulmonary vascular resistance . lv failure results in an elevation of the left atrial pressure and thereby a reduction in the transpulmonary hydrostatic gradient . because rv function depends on the contraction of the left ventricle , this contribution is reduced during lv failure . treatment should be aimed first at restoring lv function . if rv failure persists and is not due to a simple mechanical problem , treatment of rv failure should be commenced . if volume loading , inotropes , and ph adjustments do not result in adequate rv output , a mechanical assist device should be considered . rhbp is the most powerful device , and it is capable of restoring systemic perfusion even when there is no residual rv function . clinical results with this device have been most encouraging--most patients demonstrate improved rv function and a decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance after several days of treatment , allowing them to be weaned from assist . however , this technique is very invasive and requires constant close attention . pabc is a simple but less powerful assist device . experimental studies suggest that if rv function is not extremely depressed--cardiac output is greater than 50 percent of normal--pabc may be effective in restoring systemic perfusion to normal levels . current results suggest that rhbp remains the gold standard for severe rv failure , but further clinical experience with pabc may more clearly define its role in the management of rv failure . 
pathology of congenital malformations of the right heart . 
tolerance to organic nitrates . 
assessment of ischemic regional myocardial dysfunction and its reversibility . 
changes in intracardiac blood flow velocities and right and left ventricular stroke volumes with gestational age in the normal human fetus : a prospective doppler echocardiographic study . we used doppler echocardiography to quantitate the changes in intracardiac blood flow velocities and right and left ventricular stroke volumes in 80 normal human fetuses from 19 to 40 weeks gestation . blood flow velocity spectra across the aortic , pulmonary , tricuspid , and mitral valves were digitized to obtain peak velocities ( m / sec ) and flow velocity integrals . aortic and pulmonary diameters were measured at valve level from two-dimensional echocardiographic images and cross-sectional area was calculated assuming a circular orifice . ventricular stroke volume was calculated as the product of the cross-sectional area of a great vessel and the flow velocity integral through that vessel . the pulmonary arterial and aortic diameters increased linearly with gestational age ( r = .82 , r = .84 ) , and pulmonary arterial diameter consistently exceeded aortic diameter . there was a positive relationship between stroke volume and gestational age : stroke volume increased exponentially from 0.7 ml at 20 weeks to 7.6 ml at 40 weeks for the right ventricle ( r = .87 ) and from 0.7 ml at 20 weeks to 5.2 ml at 40 weeks for the left ventricle ( r = .91 ) . similar results were obtained for right and left ventricular and combined cardiac outputs . in 44 % of the fetuses it was possible to quantitate both right and left ventricular stroke volumes . there was a close correlation between right and left ventricular stroke volumes in these fetuses ( r = .96 ) and right ventricular stroke volume exceeded left ventricular stroke volume by 28 % . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
racial ( black-white ) comparisons of the relationship of levels of endogenous sex hormones to serum lipoproteins during male adolescence : the bogalusa heart study . the cross-sectional relationship of endogenous androgens ( testosterone , androstenedione , and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate [ dhea-s ] ) , estrogen ( estradiol ) and progestin ( progesterone ) to serum levels of lipoprotein cholesterol ( very low-density [ vldl ] , low-density [ ldl ] , and high-density lipoprotein [ hdl ] ) and apolipoproteins ( apo a-i and apo b ) were studied in white ( n = 251 ) and black ( n = 258 ) adolescent boys , ages 11 to 17 years , as part of the bogalusa heart study . black boys had significantly higher levels of estradiol , hdl cholesterol , and apo a-i , and lower levels of androstenedione and vldl cholesterol than white boys , independent of age and adiposity . age was correlated strongly with testosterone and androstenedione , and moderately with dhea-s and estradiol levels in both races . however , only in white boys was age consistently related to vldl cholesterol ( positively ) , hdl cholesterol ( negatively ) , and apo a-i ( negatively ) . overall , testosterone was associated inversely with hdl cholesterol and apo a-i in white boys , while progesterone was related positively to apo a-i in both races after adjusting for age and adiposity . however , these relationships were found to differ with age . partial correlations between levels of sex hormones and lipoproteins adjusted for age and adiposity showed no associations in the 11 to 12 year age group in boys of either race . a significant positive relation of testosterone to vldl cholesterol , and inverse relations of testosterone to hdl cholesterol and apo a-i and dhea-s to hdl cholesterol were apparent only in white boys in the 13 to 14 year age group . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
optimal detection of the progression of coronary artery disease : comparison of methods suitable for risk factor intervention trials . to assess the best method of quantitating progression of coronary disease , we studied four measurements in 114 coronary segments from 35 medically treated patients from whom angiograms were obtained 5 years apart . only stenoses of less than 70 % that were visualized in nearly identical projections on both angiograms were evaluated . vessel edges were measured by use of catheter calibration and an automated computer algorithm yielding two " absolute dimensions " ( mean and minimum diameters ) and two measurements ( percent stenosis and atheroma area ) that required a " normal reference " diameter . the coefficient of variation for repeated segment measurements was less for mean and minimum diameter than for percent stenosis and area of atheroma . the best measure of progression of coronary disease as determined by t test comparison of different methods was the change in mean diameter over time ( 6.7 + / - 14.1 % decrease ) , whether calculated on a per coronary segment or per patient basis ( p less than .001 ) . based on this measurement and its standard deviation of progression of coronary disease in this patient subset with relatively benign disease , it is estimated that 470 patients per group would be required for an interventional study to demonstrate a 33 % reduction in disease progression ( 207 patients for 50 % reduction ) at a 95 % confidence level and 90 % power . 
resting angina with fixed coronary artery stenosis : nocturnal decline in ischemic threshold . atrial pacing was performed in 16 patients with angina at rest and significant coronary artery stenosis ( greater than 70 % ) over 2 consecutive days in the morning ( 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. ) , in the afternoon ( 4 to 7 p.m. ) , and at night ( 12 midnight to 3 a.m. ) to assess possible circadian variations of their ischemic threshold . overall , the incidence of resting angina was highest at night . all pacing results were positive ( greater than or equal to 1.0 mm st segment shift ) and tended to be reproducible in nine patients , whereas some or all were negative in seven . among all positive results , ischemic thresholds at night were significantly lower than those in the morning and in the afternoon ( 125 + / - 3 vs 138 + / - 3 and 139 + / - 2 beats / min , mean + / - sem ; p less than .005 ) . in nine patients , 19 pacing tests produced st segment elevation , of which 13 were performed at night ( 68 % ) . we conclude that patients with resting angina and severe coronary stenosis often exhibit a nocturnal decline in their ischemic threshold , which seems to facilitate development of transmural ischemia during atrial pacing . 
local coronary supersensitivity to diverse vasoconstrictive stimuli in patients with variant angina . it has been shown in different groups of patients with variant angina that coronary spasm can be reproduced by physiologic maneuvers and pharmacologic agents . it is not known , however , to what extent different stimuli can induce spasm in the same patient . to investigate whether coronary arterial spasm results from specific abnormal agonist-receptor interactions or from a local nonspecific coronary supersensitivity to different stimuli , 28 patients with vasospastic angina were submitted to a series of diverse vasoconstrictive stimuli known to provoke coronary spasm . ergonovine , hyperventilation , handgrip , cold pressor , and exercise-tests , were carried out in all 28 patients . in the last 15 patients histamine was also administered . spasm was provoked by ergonovine in 96 % of patients , by hyperventilation in 54 % , by histamine in 47 % , by exercise in 46 % , and by the cold pressor and handgrip tests in 11 % and 7 % , respectively . no significant differences were found in the responses to provocative tests of patients with normal coronary arteries or nonsignificant stenoses and those with significant lesions . in the same individual , spasm was induced by at least two vasoconstrictive stimuli , although with a different mechanism of action , in 82 % of patients and spasm was induced by three or more stimuli in 39 % . tests were repeated in at least 23 patients and short-term reproducibility paralleled sensitivity . these results suggest that in patients with variant angina , a local nonspecific supersensitivity rather than an abnormal specific agonist-receptor interaction plays a major role in the genesis of coronary arterial spasm . 
late potentials detected after myocardial infarction : natural history and prognostic significance . the risk of developing spontaneous ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) and / or sudden death ( " arrhythmic events " ) was prospectively assessed in 165 patients who survived acute myocardial infarction . signal-averaged electrocardiograms ( ecgs ) were performed before hospital discharge and then serially at regular intervals over the following year . in addition , 24 hr holter monitoring was performed and left ventricular ejection fraction was determined . sixty-five patients ( group 1 ) had abnormal signal-averaged ecgs ( voltage in the last 40 msec of the filtered qrs less than 20 microv or filtered qrs duration greater than 120 msec ) , 92 had normal signal-averaged ecgs ( group 2 ) , and eight had bundle branch block ( excluded from analysis ) . in group 1 , spontaneous normalization of the voltage in the last 40 msec of the qrs complex occurred in 30 % of patients after 12 months , although total filtered qrs duration did not change overall . during follow-up of up to 20 months ( median 11 ) , seven patients died suddenly and six presented again with spontaneous , symptomatic vt . eleven of 65 ( 17 % ) group 1 patients had an arrhythmic event compared with one of 92 patients ( 1 % ) in group 2 ( p less than .001 ) . the sensitivity of the signal-averaged ecg as a predictor of arrhythmic events was 92 % with a specificity of 62 % . patients with subsequent arrhythmic events had considerably lower voltage in the last 40 msec of the qrs ( 11.0 + / - 8.3 vs 32.0 + / - 21.9 microv ; p less than .001 ) than those without such events , and longer filtered qrs complexes ( 121 + / - 14 vs 105 + / - 12 msec ; p less than .001 ) . multivariate logistic regression determined that the signal-averaged ecg provided independent prognostic information from the presence of complex ventricular ectopy and the degree of left ventricular dysfunction assessed at the time of hospital discharge . signal-averaged ecgs provide important prognostic information in identifying patients at risk of arrhythmic events after myocardial infarction . dynamic changes in the terminal qrs voltage are observed during the first year after myocardial infarction . 
assessment of the beta-adrenergic receptor pathway in the intact failing human heart : progressive receptor down-regulation and subsensitivity to agonist response . we developed methods for identifying beta-adrenergic receptors in human right ventricular endomyocardial biopsy tissue with the radioligand ( - ) [ 125i ] iodocyanopindolol ( icyp ) . specific icyp binding in a crude , high-yield membrane preparation derived from endomyocardial biopsy tissue was high ( specificity greater than 90 % ) , of high affinity ( kd around 20 pm ) , saturable and stereospecific for the ( - ) vs the ( + ) isomer of isoproterenol . subjects with mild-moderate and severe biventricular dysfunction had respective decreases in beta-adrenergic receptor density of 38.2 % and 57.7 % when normalization methods were averaged , with no significant differences in icyp dissociation constant . a subgroup of subjects was subdivided by left ventricular ejection fraction ( lvef ) into those with mild cardiac dysfunction ( lvef less than 0.50 greater than 0.40 ) and severe heart failure ( lvef less than 0.20 ) and given graded sequential infusions of dobutamine and calcium gluconate . those with severe cardiac dysfunction had marked impairment of the dobutamine dp / dt and stroke work index response , whereas these responses to calcium did not differ in the two groups . these data indicate that in the intact human heart endomyocardial biopsy may be used for direct analysis of beta-adrenergic receptors , heart failure-associated myocardial beta-adrenergic down-regulation begins with mild-moderate ventricular dysfunction , reduction in myocardial beta-receptor density is related to degree of heart failure , and beta-receptor down-regulation is associated with pharmacologically specific impairment of the beta-agonist-mediated contractile response . 
maintenance of cardiac output with normal filling pressures in patients with dilated heart failure . therapy of elevated ventricular filling pressures in patients with dilated heart failure may be limited by concern that cardiac output will be further compromised . twenty-five patients with severe symptoms and ejection fractions of 25 % or less were studied to determine the lowest ventricular filling pressures that could be achieved with vasodilator and diuretic therapy while maintaining cardiac output . in 20 of 25 patients normal pulmonary capillary wedge pressures ( pcws ) were achieved ( mean 10 mm hg compared with 30 mm hg at baseline ) . stroke volume was 60 vs 39 ml at baseline . stroke work index was 30 vs 19 g-m / m2 . for each patient , over the range of pcws , stroke volume and stroke work index were maintained and were often maximal at the lowest pcw achieved . the upright position was well tolerated in patients with normal supine pcw . normal filling pressures can be achieved in patients with congestive heart failure without compromise of cardiac output . while congestive symptoms should be improved , the feasibility and benefit of maintaining normal filling pressures over a long term must be established . 
hemodynamic predictors of outcome in patients undergoing valve replacement [ published erratum appears in circulation 1987 mar ; 75 ( 3 ) : 650 ] the afterload-corrected end-systolic volume index ( ratio of end-systolic stress to end-systolic volume index [ ess / esvi ] ) was previously useful in predicting outcome in patients with mitral regurgitation undergoing valve replacement . therefore we tested ess / esvi together with standard hemodynamic variables as possible predictors of outcome in 39 patients with various valvular lesions who underwent valve replacement . thirteen patients had preoperative mitral regurgitation , 16 had aortic stenosis , nine had aortic regurgitation , and one had mitral stenosis . twenty-seven patients ( group s ) had a satisfactory outcome as defined by a return to nyha class i or ii together with a normal postoperative ejection fraction . twelve patients who died , remained in class iii or iv , or had a subnormal postoperative ejection fraction were deemed to have an unsatisfactory result ( group u ) . mean right atrial pressure , pulmonary arterial pressure , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure , end-diastolic volume index , end-systolic volume index ( esvi ) , and end-systolic wall stress were all greater in group u , whereas ess / esvi and ejection fraction were lower in group u . when these and other factors were submitted to stepwise discriminant multivariate analysis , ess / esvi and esvi were the only independent predictors of outcome . however , when patients with mitral regurgitation ( who might have biased the study ) were excluded , discriminant analysis showed esvi as the only independent predictive variable . we conclude that end-systolic indicators of ventricular function are superior to other standard hemodynamic variables in predicting outcome of valve replacement . 
color doppler detection of multiple ventricular septal defects . combined two-dimensional and doppler echocardiography has a high sensitivity and specificity for detection of isolated perimembranous ventricular septal defects . however , muscular or multiple ventricular septal defects may be difficult to diagnose with noninvasive methods , particularly in older children , necessitating angiography for accurate diagnosis . detection of single and multiple ventricular septal defects with two-dimensional color flow mapping was compared with detection by standard two-dimensional imaging and doppler . both techniques were compared with four-chamber left ventricular angiography . fifty-one patients ( age 3 months to 25 years , mean 5.6 years ) were studied . eighteen had solitary ventricular septal defects , 18 had multiple ventricular septal defects , and 15 patients with intact ventricular septum served as a control group . at least one ventricular septal defect was detected by color doppler and two-dimensional / doppler methods in all patients with ventricular septal defect proved by angiography with no false positives . in the detection of multiple ventricular septal defects , the sensitivity of color doppler was 72 % and that of two-dimensional / doppler was 38 % ( 100 % specificity in both ) . color doppler failed to identify multiple ventricular septal defects in five patients ( two weighing less than 4 kg and three with reduced pulmonary blood flow ) . however , no large additional muscular defects were missed by imaging and color doppler . color doppler is useful for the detection of ventricular septal defects and has higher sensitivity than two-dimensional / doppler for multiple ventricular septal defects . the contribution of color doppler appears to be in the detection of additional small muscular ventricular septal defects . 
characterization of the spatial distribution of late ventricular potentials by body surface mapping in patients with ventricular tachycardia . low-level activity at the end of the qrs complex was analyzed from 63 thoracic leads in 15 normal subjects and in 21 patients with ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) . the latter had old myocardial infarction and no conduction disturbances and had not been receiving antiarrhythmic drugs . in both normal subjects and patients with vt , isopotential maps of the time-averaged and filtered ( 25 hz high-pass ) electrocardiograms during the terminal portion of the qrs were dipolar , i.e. , they showed single positive and negative regions . for patients with vt , the extrema were either distant , with one over the precordial area and the other over the back , or close together in the precordial region . in 10 patients , maps recorded after administration of antiarrhythmic drugs remained the same while qrs duration was prolonged . in six patients , maps recorded before antiarrhythmic surgery showed distant extrema for septal or posterobasal vt sites of origin and close extrema for anterior or posteroapical sites . generally , qrs duration was reduced and maps were modified after surgery . late potentials can be well detected with only three orthogonal leads because their distributions are dipolar , but maps provide additional information about their distribution , which may be related to conduction delay sites and possibly to vt sites of origin . sources near the torso surface would produce close extrema , whereas deeper sources would produce distant extrema . 
mapping of body surface potentials in patients with the idiopathic long qt syndrome . body surface potential maps were recorded from 140 chest leads in 25 patients affected by the idiopathic long qt syndrome ( lqts ) and in 25 healthy control subjects matched for age and sex . potential time integrals of the qrst and st-t intervals were calculated at each lead point and displayed as isointegral ( isoi ) maps . the main abnormalities noted on the qrst and st-t isoi maps were one area of negative values larger than normal in the right anterior and inferior thorax and a complex multipeak distribution of the integral values . at least one abnormality was present in 19 ( 76 % ) of the patients with lqts and four ( 16 % ) of the control subjects ( p less than .001 ) . each isoi map was also represented as a weighted sum of nine fundamental components ( eigenvectors ) to detect and quantitate the nondipolar content . the percent contribution of the nondipolar eigenvectors ( all eigenvectors beyond the third ) was significantly higher in the lqts group than in the control group ( p less than .005 ) . specifically , an abnormally high nondipolar content on the qrst isoi maps was observed much more frequently for patients with lqts than for control subjects ( nine or 36 % vs one or 4 % ) , and this was also true on the st-t isoi maps ( 14 or 56 % vs one or 4 % ) . no correlation was found between the major abnormalities on body surface maps and syncopal episodes . however , the high prevalence ( 76 % ) of these alterations among the patients with lqts and their infrequent occurrence in the control population strongly suggests that they may be useful markers for the diagnosis of atypical cases . the prominent electronegative area on the anterior thorax can be related to delayed repolarization of a portion of the anterior wall of the heart . this finding is in agreement with the hypothesis that lower than normal right cardiac sympathetic activity is the main pathogenetic mechanism of lqts . multipeak distribution and high nondipolar content suggest regional electrical disparities in the ventricular recovery process . this may in part account for the high susceptibility of patients with lqts to malignant arrhythmias . 
endocardial catheter mapping : wire skeleton technique for representation of computed arrhythmogenic sites compared with intraoperative mapping . guiding surgical therapy of ventricular tachycardia by preoperative endocardial catheter mapping necessitates improvement of the accuracy of localization of the arrhythmogenic site . we therefore used a new mathematical cineradiographic method during catheter mapping to compute the position of left ventricular arrhythmogenic sites relative to three anatomic reference points : the centers of aortic and mitral valve ostia and the left ventricular apex . to enable the surgeon to identify the position of the computed sites , a wire skeleton ( one for each patient ) representing a single or multiple arrhythmogenic site ( s ) relative to the anatomic reference points was constructed . this wire skeleton was inserted into the left ventricular cavity during surgery . side branches of the device indicated preoperatively localized arrhythmogenic sites . results in eight consecutive patients were compared with those of intraoperative simultaneous mapping of 64 endocardial sites . sixteen morphologically distinct monomorphic ventricular tachycardias were mapped by catheter and 15 by intraoperative mapping . in 12 ventricular tachycardias an identical morphology was recorded during both techniques . the distance between arrhythmogenic sites localized with both methods was 1 cm or less in 11 of these 12 ventricular tachycardias and 2 cm in one ventricular tachycardia . these results indicate that endocardial catheter mapping combined with wire skeleton representation of computed positions of arrhythmogenic sites is reliable for guiding surgical therapy of ventricular tachycardia and since some of the ventricular tachycardias were inducible only during either preoperative or intraoperative mapping , both techniques have an additive value . in addition , the wire skeleton proved convenient during surgery by identifying the arrhythmogenic sites . 
effects of incremental doses of procainamide on ventricular refractoriness , intraventricular conduction , and induction of ventricular tachycardia . the short-term effects of incremental doses of procainamide ( 7.5 , 15 , 22.5 , and 30 mg / kg ) on right ventricular effective refractory period , intraventricular conduction , and induction of ventricular tachycardia were determined in 31 patients who had a history of sustained , unimorphic ventricular tachycardia . qrs duration during incremental ventricular pacing was used as an index of rate-dependent changes in intraventricular conduction . the mean plasma procainamide concentrations corresponding to the incremental doses were 5.5 + / - 1.2 ( + / - sd ) , 9.0 + / - 1.6 , 12.6 + / - 2.2 , and 16.3 + / - 3.2 mg / liter . each incremental dose of procainamide up to a dose of 30 mg / kg resulted in a significant increment in right ventricular effective refractory period and each dose up to 22.5 mg / kg potentiated a rate-dependent prolongation of qrs duration . after the 7.5 mg / kg dose of procainamide , induction of ventricular tachycardia was suppressed in eight of 31 patients . after higher doses of procainamide , induction of ventricular tachycardia was suppressed in two additional patients . in three of 10 patients in whom the induction of ventricular tachycardia was suppressed by 7.5 , 15 , or 22.5 mg / kg of procainamide , sustained unimorphic ventricular tachycardia was again inducible after a higher dose of procainamide . in three of 31 patients , only nonsustained ventricular tachycardia was inducible after a 7.5 to 22.5 mg / kg dose of procainamide ; however , in two of these three patients , sustained ventricular tachycardia was again inducible after administration of a higher dose of procainamide . in conclusion , during electropharmacologic testing with procainamide , it is worthwhile to test a dose of 7.5 mg / kg , because this dose is often effective in patients who respond to this drug . however , the results of this study indicate that procainamide may be effective in suppressing the induction of sustained ventricular tachycardia at a relatively low plasma concentration , but not at a higher plasma concentration . therefore , during long-term therapy with procainamide it may be important to avoid plasma procainamide concentrations not only lower , but also higher than the concentration that results in the suppression of induction of tachycardia . 
coronary angioplasty for early postinfarction unstable angina . coronary angioplasty was performed in 53 patients in whom unstable angina had reoccurred after 48 hr and within 30 days after sustained myocardial infarction . single-vessel disease was present in 64 % of the patients and multivessel disease in 36 % . the preceding myocardial infarction had been small to moderate in size in the majority of the patients . the left ventricular ejection fraction was more than 50 % in 80 % of the patients . forty-five patients were refractory to pharmacologic treatment ; eight were initially stabilized but once again became symptomatic with light exertion . angioplasty was performed in 35 patients 2 to 14 days and in 18 patients 15 to 30 days after infarction ( average 12 + / - 7 days after infarction ) . the initial success rate was 89 % ( 47 / 53 ) . the success rate of the patients treated at 2 to 14 days was lower ( 29 / 35 , 83 % ) than that of patients treated at 14 to 30 days ( 18 / 18 , 100 % ) but did not reach statistical significance ( p less than .06 ) . there were no deaths related to the procedure . in four of the six failures , emergency bypass surgery was performed and two patients sustained a myocardial infarction . furthermore , a myocardial infarction complicated the angioplasty procedure in two other patients ; thus the overall procedure-related myocardial infarction rate was 8 % ( 4 / 53 ) . at 6 months follow-up 26 % ( 14 / 53 ) of all the patients who underwent angioplasty had recurrence of angina , which was successfully treated with repeat angioplasty , bypass surgery , or medical therapy . there were no late deaths . late myocardial infarction occurred in two patients . thus the total myocardial infarction rate after angioplasty at 6 months was 11 % ( 6 / 53 patients ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
coronary dissection and total coronary occlusion associated with percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty : significance of initial angiographic morphology of coronary stenoses . coronary dissection and total coronary occlusion leading to emergency coronary surgery are the most frequent complications of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) and their occurrence usually is unpredictable . to identify angiographic characteristics of coronary stenoses that may affect the incidence of these complications , the diagnostic pre-ptca coronary angiograms of 38 consecutive patients ( group i ) undergoing emergency coronary surgery for dissection or occlusion were reviewed and compared with the angiograms of a random sample of 38 patients ( stratified for left anterior descending and right coronary arteries ) from a group of 1151 who did not need emergency coronary surgery ( group ii ) . stenosis morphology before angioplasty was considered " complicated " if at least one of the following criteria was present : irregular borders , intraluminal lucency , and localization of stenosis in curve or at bifurcation . baseline characteristics , maximum inflation pressures , types of balloon catheters used , and routinely registered angiographic stenosis properties ( severity , length , eccentricity , and calcification ) were similar in both groups . irregular borders before ptca were present in 22 of 38 patients in group i vs 10 of 38 in group ii ( p less than .05 ) , intraluminal lucency in 22 of 38 vs nine of 38 ( p less than .05 ) , localization in curve in 27 of 38 pts vs 16 of 38 ( p less than .05 ) , and localization at bifurcation in 11 of 38 vs 15 of 38 ( ns ) . complicated angiographic morphology of coronary stenosis may represent a risk factor for dissection or occlusion . therefore , although the predictive value of these findings is low , detailed evaluation of angiographic morphology of coronary stenoses may improve patient selection and reduce complication rates of ptca . 
which patients benefit most from early thrombolytic therapy with intracoronary streptokinase ? [ published erratum appears in circulation 1987 feb ; 75 ( 2 ) : 394 ] the effect of thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction on enzymatic infarct size , left ventricular function , and early mortality was studied in subsets of patients in a randomized trial . early thrombolytic therapy with intracoronary streptokinase ( 152 patients ) or with intracoronary streptokinase preceded by intravenous streptokinase ( 117 patients ) was compared with conventional treatment ( 264 patients ) . all 533 patients were admitted to the coronary care unit within 4 hr after onset of symptoms indicative of acute myocardial infarction . four hundred eighty-eight patients were eligible for this detailed analysis , and 245 of these were allocated to thrombolytic therapy and 243 to conventional treatment . early angiographic examinations were performed in 212 patients allocated to thrombolytic therapy . patency of the infarct-related artery was achieved in 181 patients ( 85 % ) . enzymatic infarct size , as measured from cumulative alpha-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase release , was smaller in patients allocated to thrombolytic therapy ( median 760 vs 1170 u / liter in control patients , p = .0001 ) . left ventricular ejection fraction measured by radionuclide angiography before discharge from the hospital was higher after thrombolytic therapy ( median 50 % vs 43 % in control patients , p = .0001 ) . three month mortality was lower in patients allocated to thrombolytic therapy ( 6 % vs 14 % in the control group , p = .006 ) . with the use of multivariate regression analysis , infarct size limitation , improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction , and three month mortality were predicted by sum of the st segment elevation , time from onset of symptoms to admission , and killip class at admission . thrombolysis was most effective in patients admitted within 2 hr after onset of symptoms and in patients with a sum of st segment elevation of 1.2 mv or more . on the other hand , no beneficial effects of streptokinase on enzymatic infarct size , left ventricular function , or mortality were observed in the subset of patients with a sum of st segment elevation of less than 1.2 mv who were admitted between 2 and 4 hr after onset of symptoms . 
vest inflation without simultaneous ventilation during cardiac arrest in dogs : improved survival from prolonged cardiopulmonary resuscitation . myocardial and cerebral blood flow can be generated during cardiac arrest by techniques that manipulate intrathoracic pressure . augmentation of intrathoracic pressure by high-pressure ventilation simultaneous with compression of the chest in dogs has been shown to produce higher flows to the heart and brain , but has limited usefulness because of the requirement for endotracheal intubation and complex devices . a system was developed that can produce high intrathoracic pressure without simultaneous ventilation by use of a pneumatically cycled vest placed around the thorax ( vest cardiopulmonary resuscitation [ cpr ] ) . the system was first tested in a short-term study of the maximum achievable flows during arrest . peak vest pressures up to 380 mm hg were used on eight 21 to 30 kg dogs after induction of ventricular fibrillation and administration of epinephrine . microsphere-determined myocardial blood flow was 108 + / - 17 ml / min / 100 g ( 100 + / - 16 % of prearrest flow ) and cerebral flow was 51 + / - 12 ml / min / 100 g ( 165 + / - 39 % of prearrest ) . severe lung or liver trauma was noted in three of eight dogs . if peak vest pressure was limited to 280 mm hg , however , severe trauma was no longer observed . a study of the hemodynamics during and survival from prolonged resuscitation was then performed on three groups of seven dogs . vest cpr was compared with manual cpr with either conventional ( 300 newtons ) or high ( 430 newtons ) sternal force . after induction of ventricular fibrillation , each technique was performed for 26 min . defibrillation was then performed . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
the immediate effects of iohexol on coronary blood flow and myocardial function in vivo . radiographic techniques used to quantify coronary blood flow all require bolus injection of contrast material , which markedly alters the flow being measured . newer nonionic contrast agents have been shown to have fewer adverse hemodynamic , inotropic , and rheologic effects compared with ionic media and it has been suggested that they might not substantially affect coronary blood flow . six dogs were instrumented with electromagnetic flow probes and subendocardial ultrasonic crystals . intracoronary injections of iohexol ( 300 mg / ml iodine ) were administered to establish a relationship between the dose and rate of contrast injection and the effect on flow and regional myocardial function . two and 4 ml volumes of iohexol were injected at 3 ml / sec ; 4 ml volumes were administered at 1 and 4 ml / sec . the 2 and 4 ml volumes decreased coronary flow by a mean of 31 % ( p less than .01 ) and 77 % ( p less than .001 ) . the 4 ml injection at 1 and 4 ml / sec 77 % ( p less than .001 ) and 69 % ( p less than .001 ) . the magnitude of the fall in flow was directly related to the dose , and the rate at which the flow nadir was attained was directly related to the rate of injection . decrements in fractional shortening were temporally delayed by several beats compared with the flow changes and showed mean decrements of 19 % to 29 % . the effects on regional myocardial function were independent of contrast volume . however , the degree of dysfunction was more profound with slower infusion rates , suggesting that prolongation of contrast-induced ischemia was a major modulating factor . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
reduction in experimental infarct size by recombinant human superoxide dismutase : insights into the pathophysiology of reperfusion injury . to determine the importance of reperfusion injury and the ability of the free-radical scavenger recombinant human superoxide dismutase ( h-sod ) to prevent it , open-chest dogs underwent 90 min of proximal circumflex coronary artery occlusion , and only at the moment of reperfusion received either h-sod ( 400 , 000 iu bolus into the left atrium followed by a 300 , 000 iu iv infusion over 1 hr ) or saline . after 48 hr the surviving animals were killed and measurements were made of the risk region ( by postmortem angiography ) and infarct size ( by gross pathology ) . all measurements were made by investigators blinded to treatment given , and the code was broken only at the end of the study . hemodynamic variables and collateral flow during ischemia were similar in the two groups . infarct size in control animals ( n = 8 ) averaged 22.4 + / - 3.1 % of the left ventricle and 52.2 + / - 7.1 % of the risk region , compared with 13.3 + / - 0.8 % of the left ventricle and 33.6 + / - 2.1 % of the risk region in h-sod-treated dogs ( n = 8 ) ( p less than .05 ) . infarcts in treated animals were not only smaller , but also exhibited a distinctive " patchiness , " suggesting protection along vascular distributions . furthermore , analysis of the relationship between infarct size and collateral flow measured during ischemia in the two groups indicated that protection by h-sod was greatest in animals with the lowest collateral flows . this study supports the concept that reperfusion of ischemic myocardium results in a separate component of cell damage , presumably linked to the generation of oxygen free radicals on reflow . since the h-sod preventable reperfusion component of injury was most pronounced in hearts with the most severe ischemia , scavenging of oxygen radicals at the time of reflow may offer a novel and particularly promising therapeutic approach for the protection of ischemic myocardium . 
magnetic resonance imaging of acute myocardial infarction : gadolinium diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid as a marker of reperfusion . we examined the effects of a paramagnetic contrast agent , gadolinium diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid ( gd-dtpa ) on magnetic resonance images of acute myocardial infarction with and without reperfusion . twenty-two dogs underwent occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery ( lad ) . in 10 dogs ( group i ) the lad remained occluded for 3 hr and in the other 12 ( group ii ) for 2 hr followed by 1 hr of reperfusion . gd-dtpa ( 0.34 mm / kg ) was administered to five dogs in group i at 2 hr and 5 min after occlusion and to seven dogs in group ii 5 min after reperfusion . at 3 hr after ligation , the hearts were excised and imaged with spin echo and inversion recovery pulse sequences on a 0.35 tesla magnetic resonance imager . reperfused hearts given gd-dtpa demonstrated a significant increase in contrast between normal and reperfused myocardium as compared with nonreperfused hearts and reperfused hearts not given gd-dtpa . this enhancement was particularly prominent in the inversion recovery images . studies performed in vivo in two additional dogs demonstrated similar enhancement with reperfusion with gd-dtpa in gated spin echo images . contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging allows the detection of reperfusion early in the course of acute infarction . 
dietary guidelines for healthy american adults . a statement for physicians and health professionals by the nutrition committee , american heart association . this statement for physicians replaces the american heart association 's diet and coronary heart disease , published in 1978. the current guidelines propose an optimal preventive diet for coronary heart disease . emphasis is placed on the reduction of both saturated fat and total fat . complex carbohydrates are recommended as the major replacement for calories from fat . polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats partially replace calories from other fat sources . cholesterol and sodium guidelines are expressed relative to caloric intake , with an upper limit on each . the use of alcohol as a possible means of preventing cardiovascular disease is not advised . maintenance of ideal body weight by calorie control and an adequate level of activity is emphasized . 
proceedings of the 1985 national conference on standards and guidelines for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency cardiac care . july 11-13 , dallas , texas . 
a needs assessment of advanced life support and emergency medical services in the pediatric patient : state of the art . the outcome from cardiopulmonary arrest in children in the prehospital and hospital setting is generally poor . the event that compromises the cardiac status is often respiratory embarrassment , and the presenting rhythms are often bradyarrhythmias and asystole . emergency medical services ( ems ) systems have primarily an adult focus and may not be organized to manage optimally the critically ill and injured child . data from a survey of training programs demonstrate that paramedic and emt education in pediatric emergencies may be inadequate . forty-one percent of the programs surveyed had less than 10 hr of pediatric training . data suggest that ems providers may not be equipped to manage children effectively . the los angeles ems system for children is described . there are two levels of receiving facilities : emergency departments approved for pediatrics and pediatric critical care centers . the system is voluntary and has 85 % of the hospitals in compliance with the guidelines . early recognition of the prearrest state , improved training , and equipping of prehospital care personnel , development of ems services for children , dissemination of an advanced pediatric life support course , as well as research in pediatric cpr may improve the outcome of resuscitation in the pediatric population . 
special considerations for defibrillation performed by emergency medical technicians in small communities . defibrillation by minimally trained ambulance technicians can significantly improve survival after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in communities of all sizes . however , special consideration must be given to the development of such services in small communities , chiefly because of problems associated with the low volume of true emergency calls . communities considering implementing programs by which defibrillation is performed by the emergency medical technician ( emt-d ) must first evaluate their ambulance response times and , if inadequate , alter their system of ambulance response . after implementation of such a program , a permanent , formal skill maintenance program must be established . defibrillation protocols must allow for the fact that many patients will refibrillate after successful conversion , yet no advanced care beyond the defibrillator will generally be available . finally , every community instituting an emt-d program must maintain a system of monitoring emt performance and patient outcome that documents acceptable survival-to-discharge rates as well as the safety of the program . for smaller communities a regional or statewide evaluation system may be preferable to individual community programs . 
education and evaluation in emergency cardiac care programs ( cpr and advanced cardiac life support ) : state of the art . to increase the survival rate for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest , improvements in training must be made so that lay rescuers are motivated and have the ability to get involved . to overcome some of the fear and lack of involvement , better education strategies are needed . adults learn didactic information through understanding and skills through repetition and reinforcement . due to the fact that there is limited time that adults will commit to learning cpr , methods of simplification of the techniques need to be used so that there can be sufficient repetition and reinforcement . teaching two-rescuer cpr to lay rescuers should not routinely be done . most adults , particularly those around high-risk individuals , should learn one-rescuer cpr . infant resuscitation should be taught predominantly to those around small children . methods of reinforcement through the mass media should be attempted on a routine basis . whenever possible the courses should be spread over a period of time to allow for repetition and reinforcement , thereby maximizing learning . advanced cardiac life support ( acls ) should be widely taught to health professionals . acls instruction needs to be spread over time , whenever logistically possible , to enhance learning and retention . good , validated examinations are needed and should be routinely rotated . better methods of evaluation are needed to look at the benefit of these types of programs and to improve the cost-benefit ratio . 
near drowning . several conditions that contribute to drowning and near drowning must be considered in the treatment of near-drowned victims . regardless of the cause , mechanical ventilation should begin as soon as possible and closed-chest cardiac massage should be administered when there is any question about the adequacy of cardiac output . after aspiration of either fresh or seawater , a large intrapulmonary physiologic shunt can occur , which requires aggressive mechanical ventilatory support to ensure adequate oxygenation and to return pulmonary function to normal . near drowning is a multisystem disease and , while abnormalities of the lung and brain have been emphasized , definitive therapy must be tailored to each patient and must address all of the patient 's needs . 
emergency medical service systems in acute cardiac care : state of the art . over the last two decades , emergency medical services in the united states have been greatly improved . organization of prehospital providers of health care has improved the outcome of many patients , particularly the trauma patient and the acute cardiac patient . in seattle as many as 40 % of outside-the-hospital cardiac arrest victims with ventricular fibrillation have been saved when there is rapid delivery of basic life support by first responders followed by advanced life support by paramedics . although these systems are growing and improving health care , many lack adequate medical control or physician involvement . emergency medical service systems must have physicians involved in their management to meet their full capabilities . it has become apparent that four factors are critical in determining the ability to resuscitate an individual once a cardiac arrest has occurred : time to starting any of the rescue procedures , use of electrical defibrillation when indicated , use of epinephrine , and adequacy of the technique of basic life support , particularly the ventilation component . to provide defibrillation at the earliest possible time , defibrillation by first responders such as emergency medical technicians appears to be of benefit . with the advent of automatic and semiautomatic defibrillators , first responders and family members may also be able to defibrillate victims . the use of defibrillation by people with less training than paramedics , however , must be approached with caution to ensure that there is adequate medical control and that the individuals who use these devices are properly trained . 
modifications of cardiopulmonary resuscitation based on the cough . the ability of cardiopulmonary resuscitation ( cpr ) to provide adequate vital organ blood flow during prolonged resuscitation has long been questioned , as has the mechanism of blood flow during cpr . because coughing during cardiac arrest has been shown to produce adequate anterograde flow to maintain consciousness in man without compressing the heart , cough cpr has been used as a model of a pure " thoracic pump " mechanism on which to base modifications of cpr . in the thoracic pump mechanism , the left heart is a passive conduit for blood expressed from the pulmonary vasculature to the aorta , and there is selective flow to the brachiocephalic vascular bed because of its low pressure veins , which are protected by closure of thoracic inlet venous valves . right heart flow from systemic veins to the lungs occurs between applications of pressure . four alternative modalities exploiting the thoracic pump concept were studied in dogs during ventricular fibrillation with angiographic and pressure recordings : cough cpr , simultaneous chest compression and lung inflation , abdominal compression with lung inflation , and inflation of a vest and binder . the latter technique was associated with successful defibrillation and recovery after more than 30 min of circulatory support during ventricular fibrillation . preliminary studies in a primate preparation indicate that this technique might be useful for prolonged circulatory support in man when defibrillation is not initially available or successful . 
the influence of manual chest compression rate on hemodynamic support during cardiac arrest : high-impulse cardiopulmonary resuscitation . considerable effort has been expended in recent years by a number of laboratories to improve methods of cardiopulmonary resuscitation . this article briefly summarizes 5 years of investigation by our group on hemodynamic support during external cardiac massage . in most studies , long-term canine preparations were used , and implanted transducers allowed precise hemodynamic measurements . although cardiac output was depressed with all cpr methods , manual chest compressions of high velocity , moderate force , and brief duration at a rate of 120 / min seemed to optimize systemic and coronary blood flow . this method was termed high-impulse cpr . high-impulse techniques now have been applied extensively in the clinical setting , and preliminary observations also support their efficacy in man . based on this experience , it is suggested that the american heart association guidelines be changed to recommend a manual chest compression rate of 120 / min during closed-chest cardiac massage . 
foreign body airway obstruction : considerations in 1985. management of foreign body airway obstruction continues to be a major controversy in emergency medical care . much of the disagreement is without doubt based on lack of a uniformly accepted model of acute airway obstruction representative of the clinical event . a variety of models have been used to assess different aspects of airway obstruction by foreign bodies . these models have analyzed , among other variables , kinetic energy and inertial and aerodynamic forces in attempts to focus on specific aspects of this controversy . human volunteers , anesthetized and paralyzed patients , and cadavers have also been used . in several recent studies it was concluded that subdiaphragmatic pressure is the treatment of choice , while in at least one additional study firm back blows applied with the patient 's head hanging downward were recommended as the treatment most likely to relieve airway obstruction . it seems likely that these apparently conflicting views can be reconciled and that a consensus recommendation for treatment of this emergency can be effected . 
alternative methods of ventilation during respiratory and cardiac arrest . artificial ventilation is a cornerstone of basic life support-cardiopulmonary resuscitation ( bls-cpr ) . recent data corroborate clinical studies performed in the 1950s and 1960s , suggesting a need to change the present american heart association standards for artificial ventilation . these studies show that gastric insufflation followed by regurgitation and pulmonary aspiration are a major hazard of artificial ventilation with an unprotected airway . present bls-cpr standards require that ventilation be performed rapidly between external chest compressions or with incremental breaths . these methods of ventilation predispose the victim to gastric insufflation . alternative methods of ventilation with longer inspiratory time and thus lower flow rate and peak inspiratory pressure are suggested . additionally , rescue personnel , particularly emts and paramedics , should be taught how to apply cricoid pressure to prevent gastric insufflation in victims with an unprotected airway . 
failure of sodium bicarbonate to improve resuscitation from ventricular fibrillation in dogs . to determine the value of sodium bicarbonate in resuscitation from ventricular fibrillation and the prevention of spontaneous refibrillation , sodium bicarbonate ( 1 meq / kg ) or placebo was administered on a random basis to 16 pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs 18 min after the induction of ventricular fibrillation and cardiopulmonary resuscitation . defibrillation was attempted 2 min after the administration of bicarbonate or placebo . all animals were successfully defibrillated , but three of eight bicarbonate-treated and two of eight control animals died in electromechanical dissociation ( p = ns ) . spontaneous refibrillation occurred in three animals in each group ( p = ns ) . successful resuscitation was not dependent on treatment , arterial or mixed venous pco2 , or arterial or mixed venous ph but correlated strongly with coronary perfusion pressure ( p less than .003 ) . spontaneous refibrillation occurred without relation to any identifiable variable . the gradient between diastolic aortic and right atrial pressures was 24 + / - 2 mm hg in controls and 23 + / - 2 mm hg in treated animals over the entire 20 min of cardiopulmonary resuscitation ( p = ns ) . however , among animals successfully resuscitated , mean diastolic coronary perfusion pressure averaged 27 + / - 2 mm hg compared with 20 + / - 1 mm hg among those dying in electromechanical dissociation ( p less than .02 ) . for the final 2 min of resuscitation , after drug administration , these gradients were 31 + / - 2 and 23 + / - 2 mm hg , respectively ( p less than .01 ) . microsphere determined myocardial perfusion correlated with the diastolic aortic-right atrial perfusion pressure gradient ( r = .86 ) and was 0.43 + / - 0.03 ml / min / g in survivors and 0.22 + / - 0.01 ml / min / g in nonsurvivors ( p less than .01 ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
defibrillation performed by the emergency medical technician . as a means of providing defibrillation as soon as possible for those suffering out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation , numerous communities have trained and authorized emergency medical technicians ( emts ) to provide defibrillatory shocks ( emt-d ) . the findings of four controlled studies and the experience of various communities have answered important questions . emt-d programs have been shown effective in urban , suburban , and rural communities with and without paramedic backup . emt-d programs appear safe , with errors of commission being extremely rare and errors of omission being of acceptably low incidence . issues still to be resolved include the degree and amount of training that should be given and whether manual or automatic defibrillators should be used . medical supervision and quality control is the most important aspect of emt-d programs . at its core , the success of emt-d programs is confirmation of the principle of early defibrillation . wider dissemination of early defibrillation will improve survival from sudden cardiac death . 
the globus sensation . 
computed tomography : a mandatory investigational procedure for the t-staging of advanced laryngeal cancer . eighteen patients underwent computed tomography ( ct ) prior to total laryngectomy . in order to assess the accuracy of ct scanning in the evaluation of carcinoma of the larynx , ct scans were prospectively interpreted and the extent of the tumour was recorded . the tumour extent was evaluated on whole-mount histologic sections of the laryngeal specimens , prepared in the horizontal plane , similar to the ct scan . the results were compared to assess the ability of ct to identify tumour infiltration in the horizontal plane accurately . based on these findings it is clear that ct has its influence on the t-staging and on the choice of treatment of laryngeal cancer , i.e. radiotherapy versus surgery . 
children 's sore throats related to parental smoking . there has been concern that the smoking of tobacco can adversely affect the health of non-smokers . this is most cogent in children who are subject to smoke at home . the aim of this study is to relate children 's sore throats to the smoking habits of their parents . the parents of 154 children were asked about the age , sex , birthweight , method of postnatal feeding and age at starting school or day nursery of the child , the frequency of sore throats , smoking habits and history of tonsillectomy of all members of the household , the size of family , the dwelling size , and the occupation of the father . analysis by multiple regression showed a significant association between children 's sore throats and maternal smoking . reduction in domestic cigarette smoke exposure should benefit the child by reducing the number of sore throats he or she suffers . 
bacteriological aspects of swimming with grommets . a prospective bacteriological and symptomatic study was carried out on 50 swimmers and 50 non-swimmers who had grommets inserted for secretory otitis media . the risk of developing otorrhoea with positive bacterial pathogens was similar for swimmers ( 7.9 % ) and non-swimmers ( 8.0 % ) . subdividing the non-swimmers into ' wetters ' and ' strictly dry ' there was a similar risk of ear symptoms and pathogens . all children who swim before the insertion of grommets should continue to do so postoperatively with no added risk of ear infections . 
a non-invasive method of demonstrating the nasal cycle using flexible liquid crystal thermography . the relationship between air flow at 38 degrees c and area colour change on a flexible liquid crystal film was found to be virtually linear between the values of 1 and 31 min-1 cm-2 . this value of flow per unit area corresponded to values expected at the level of the nostril during quiet breathing . a series of 6 subjects were asked to breathe over a flexible liquid crystal film regularly during the day and the area of colour change produced by flow from each nostril was examined . four subjects showed a regular change in relative flow through each nostril whilst 2 subjects showed a constant flow through each nostril . this simple and non-invasive technique provides a method of examining the nasal cycle in adults and children in health and disease . 
video time-lapse microscopy of human laryngeal carcinomas in vitro . twelve human laryngeal carcinomas and 14 normal vocal cord epithelia were studied in vitro by the method of tissue culture incorporating video time-lapse microscopy . different events were photographed by taking ' stills ' from the television monitor during play-back . outgrowths from both tumour and normal explants formed only as monolayers . mitoses were mainly found to be localized approximately mid-way between explant and the edge of the outgrowth . some cells were seen to become suddenly active producing oscillating blebs and sometimes they detached themselves from the monolayer culture and changed appearance . this was more prevalent in the tumour cultures . in both tumour and normal cell cultures lymphocytes were observed and their normal chemokinetic movement was changed into a rapid chemotactic attraction by the presence of a mitotic epithelial cell . these lymphocytes appear to represent t-suppressor cells . the present study has shown that primary tissue culture can be a valuable tool in the study of laryngeal carcinoma . the interaction between mitotic tumour cells and lymphocytes may represent a transformation of t-lymphocytes into lak cells . 
hypertetraploid cells in vocal cord epithelia . dna measurements yield information about the nature of cells and may provide diagnostic and prognostic information . static cytofluorometry was performed on smears removed at microlaryngoscopy from 107 vocal cord lesions ( 96 patients ) . all stem cell lines were diploid except 3 ; 2 carcinomas and 1 severe dysplasia were polyploid . the mean proliferative activity ( percentage of nuclei greater than diploid peak ) was 2.1 % for the group of epithelia with hyperplasia and mild dysplasia , 3.1 % for those with moderate dysplasia , 4.0 % for severe dysplasia , and 6.8 % for carcinomas . hypertetraploid cell nuclei ( ht cells ) were not found in epithelia with hyperplasia and mild dysplasia . seven out of 15 patients with epithelia showing moderate dysplasia had ht cells ; 5 of these patients developed a carcinoma . one of 8 without ht cells developed a severe dysplasia . nine patients with severe dysplasia had ht cells ; 4 had recurrences and 4 developed carcinoma within 4 years . in 14 patients without ht cells , 3 had recurrences and 1 developed a carcinoma 6 years later . ht cells were found in 15 patients with t1 & t2 carcinomas ; residual carcinoma was present in 2 after radiotherapy and 4 had recurrences within 11 months . fourteen patients with t1 & t2 carcinoma did not have any ht cells ; one had residual carcinoma after radiotherapy and 3 had recurrences between 18 months and 4 years . dna measurements and , especially , the demonstration of epithelia with ht cells prove to be of prognostic importance . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
the patterson operation for decompression of the orbit . a modification of patterson 's external antro-ethmoidectomy operation is described which provides a more direct and simpler approach than the transantral operation for decompression of the orbit . 
transection of varicose vessels in the nasal mucosa of patients with recurrent epistaxis . a 2-year follow-up . twenty-two patients with recurrent nose bleeds and varicose vessels on the nasal septum were subjected to transection of the vessels and followed-up for 2 years . one month after the operation , it was not possible to identify the original vessels . in other locations new varicose vessels began to appear after 1 month , and at the end of the follow-up period were observed on 9 out of 10 operated sides . the transection resulted in an immediate decrease in the frequency of nose bleeds and at the end of the control period 12 ( 55 % ) of the patients had had less than 4 bleeds during the previous year in spite of the observed rapid formation of new vessels . mucosal atrophy with symptoms of increased nasal crusting occurred in 3 patients . transection of varicose vessels in patients with nose bleeds leads to a decrease in the number of bleeds . 
autonomic microganglia of the nasal mucosa and their relation to vasomotor rhinitis . the classical concept of the autonomic innervation of the nasal mucosa states that the postganglionic sympathetic neurones lie in the superior cervical ganglion and those of the postganglionic parasympathetic neurones are in the pterygopalatine ganglion . we have carried out a study of the fine structure of the respiratory nasal mucosa in man and in the cat using the techniques described by jabonero , champy maillet and koelle-friedenwald . the most striking finding was the presence of microganglia deep within the mucosa of the inferior turbinate close to the glands . these microganglia were cholinergic in nature since they demonstrated a positive reaction to anticholinesterase . from this we deduce that the nasal parasympathetic pathway has its postganglionic neurones not only in the pterygopalatine ganglion but also in these microganglia of the inferior turbinate . each of four groups of cats were submitted to different techniques , including administration of neostigmine , inferior turbinectomy and vidian neurectomy . resection of the microganglia by means of turbinectomy reduced the hypersecretion caused by neostigmine and this was most noticeable when a vidian neurectomy was carried out in addition . 
oto-rhino-laryngological research society . london , october 1985. abstracts . 
triamterene-induced crystalluria and cylinduria : clinical and experimental studies . we examined the occurrence of crystals and casts in the urine of healthy subjects after administration of triamterene and the site of crystal formation in experimental animals . twenty out of twenty healthy subjects had abundant triamterene crystals and casts in acid urine after receiving a single 100 mg dose . casts were present in the urine from 2-11 hours after administration of the diuretic . cast formation occurred in acidic urine and was prevented by alkalinization of the urine with potassium citrate . animal studies showed that crystallization and cast formation occurred in the medullary and papillary collecting ducts of the rat kidney . these findings provide a possible explanation for the reported nephrotoxicity of triamterene , particularly when given to patients who are receiving non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents . 
percutaneous renal biopsy in infants and young children . records of 55 percutaneous renal biopsies performed in 53 children aged 5 days to two years were reviewed . radiographic or ultrasound imaging techniques were not utilized during the biopsy procedure . forty-nine of 55 biopsy attempts yielded sufficient tissue for histologic evaluation ( 89.1 % ) . transient gross hematuria not requiring intervention was the sole complication and was noted in 6 of 55 biopsy attempts ( 10.9 % ) . percutaneous renal biopsy can be performed safely in very young children and the success of the procedure is comparable to that in older children . 
intraperitoneal fibrin-formation and its inhibition in capd . the intraperitoneal fibrin formation and its inhibition by intraperitoneal heparin ( 5000 u ) was investigated in six patients on capd . the intraperitoneal heparin concentration decreased linearily from 1.78 u / ml to 1.13 u / ml during a 4-hour dwell time . the antithrombin iii-concentration increased to 0.56 + / - 0.1 mg / dl , reaching 1.87 % of normal plasma values . the antithrombin iii-portion of total protein was 0.62 % in plasma and 0.79 % in dialysate . the fibrinopeptide a-concentration , a specific product of thrombin action on fibrinogen was 37.1 + / - 11.8 ng / ml in plasma ( normal range : less than 2.5 ng / ml ) and 153.4 + / - 16.8 ng / ml in dialysate during regular capd . after the addition of 5000 u heparin the fibrinopeptide a-concentration in dialysate decreased to 11.6 + / - 2.6 ng / ml during a 4-hour dwell time . in vitro experiments showed no remarkable inhibition of fibrin formation by heparin without antithrombin iii in dialysate . we suggest that the fibrinopeptide a is produced intraperitoneally and the antithrombin iii-concentration in dialysate is sufficient to inhibit the fibrin formation after acceleration by heparin . 
reversible membranous glomerulonephritis associated with ketoprofen . an 87-year-old woman presented with the nephrotic syndrome 12 months after administration of ketoprofen , 100 mg daily for osteoarthritis . clinical course and laboratory data were consistent with drug-induced nephropathy . kidney biopsy showed membranous glomerulonephritis . evolution was favorable with resolution of proteinuria after drug withdrawal and steroid administration . a review of the literature on nephrotic syndrome associated with nsaid reveals membranous glomerulonephritis to be an unusual complication . 
osteoid osteoma in a cervical pedicle . resection via transpillar approach . lesions in the pedicles of the cervical spine are both a diagnostic and technical challenge . an osteoid osteoma of the pedicle of the fourth cervical vertebra occurred in a 17-year-old girl . resection of the tumor adjacent to the dura medially and the vertebral artery anterolaterally was accomplished via a transpillar approach . the transosseus approach preserved the facet joints and posterior elements and obviated the need for an interbody fusion . 
upper extremity proprioception in idiopathic scoliosis . twenty-three patients with idiopathic scoliosis were tested for upper extremity proprioceptive function . all subjects had documented progression of deformity , with an average curvature of 34 degrees . the average ages for scoliotics and 18 control subjects were 16.1 and 20.8 years , respectively . controls had no spinal deformity and underwent identical test procedures . the test results showed that scoliotic subjects had significant asymmetry between right and left limbs in their threshold for detection of joint motion ( p less than or equal to 0.005 ) and in their ability to reproduce angles to which their elbow joint had been previously positioned ( p less than or equal to 0.025 ) . slight asymmetry also was observed in the reproduction tests of the control group ( p less than or equal to 0.013 ) ; however , there was no significant asymmetry seen in this group for the threshold test . performance of bilateral limbs was designated good and bad for both groups ; the limb that performed better in proprioceptive function was designated good limb . analysis of data showed that the scoliotics ' good and bad limbs performed inferiorly in both threshold and angle reproduction tests when compared with normal controls . the results of this study imply , but do not localize , a neurologic deficit in scoliotic patients . 
a new approach to the treatment of ankle fractures . the inyo nail . the inyo nail is a new intramedullary device for the treatment of fractures of the distal fibula . it is a tapered v-shaped nail made of malleable stainless steel , which provides rigid fracture fixation . torsional stress is resisted because of its triflanged shape . it may be introduced closed , using the image intensifier . two groups of patients were evaluated : group i was treated with the inyo nail and group ii was treated by the association for the study of internal fixation ( asif ) technique . eighty-five percent of the patients in group i were rated as good , compared with 63 % in group ii . there was significantly less morbidity and complications in group i . several factors must be observed in the treatment of ankle fractures . stress radiographs must be obtained intraoperative . surgery may be indicated in unstable supination lateral rotation type ii injuries , if these occur in patients with high physical demands . anatomic reduction of the lateral malleolus must be obtained . early weight-bearing and motion produces the best result . late reconstruction of malunions can be accomplished using the inyo nail . 
nonoperative management of isolated grade iii collateral ligament injury in high school football players . in a prospective study , 24 high school football players with isolated grade iii injuries of the medial collateral ligament ( mcl ) of the knee were treated by conservative management . this included an active rehabilitation program , progressing from immobilization and controlled motion in an orthotic rehabilitation knee brace , to muscle strengthening and agility exercise . a stable knee was achieved in 22 cases ; the average recovery time was 29 days . the athletes returned to competitive sports at a mean time of 34 days . these results confirm previous reports of successful nonoperative management of isolated grade iii mcl injuries . 
tibial component fixation in knee arthroplasty . using roentgen stereophotogrammetric analysis ( rsa ) , the integrity of the bond between the tibial component and the tibia was studied in seven knees , implanted with a cemented kinematic total knee prosthesis for gonarthrosis . migration ranging from 0.3 to 1.9 mm over a two-year period occurred in all seven cases . displacement , induced by external forces , ranging from 0.2 to 1.0 mm was observed in five cases . measurable migration and inducible displacement may be the rule rather than an exception in total knee arthroplasty ( tka ) . accordingly , absolute rigid fixation would not be necessary for successful function of a tka . 
ruptures of the extensor mechanism of the knee joint . clinical results and patellofemoral articulation . the functional results of 28 cases of rupture of the quadriceps and patellar tendons are reported . excellent or good results were noted in 15 of 18 quadriceps and 7 of 10 patellar tendons . radiographic comparison with the opposite knee disclosed incongruences between the patella and the femoral groove in the tangential view and / or cranial-caudal position of the patella in the lateral view in 13 of the quadriceps tendon ruptures and seven of the patellar tendon ruptures . patients with residual pain had patellofemoral incongruity but since two-thirds of the patients with incongruity were asymptomatic , incongruity alone may not be the cause of the symptoms . there was no positive correlation to muscular strength or range of movement . nevertheless , exact adaptation of the patellar tendon and periarticular tissue seems necessary to obtain correct patello-femoral articulation . reinforcement of the tendon with a wire cerclage is recommended to decrease the tension on the suture line and the consequent risk of a secondary rupture . in acute ruptures of the quadriceps tendon end-to-end sutures are sufficient . 
a modified technique for anterior cruciate ligament ( acl ) surgery using a new drill guide for isometric positioning of the acl . in reconstructing the anterior cruciate ligament ( acl ) it is important to place the inner ends of the drill channels correctly , to get the acl into an isometric position . anatomic studies demonstrate the value of a modified surgical technique using a special drill guide for standardized positioning of the anterior cruciate substitute . the drill guide consists of a metal frame with one adjustable and one fixed guide tube . drilling is done from the anteromedial aspect of the tibia , upwards , through the joint space and the femur in a straight line , both channels being drilled in a single procedure . the precision of guided drilling was superior to that of free-hand drilling in positioning the ligament in the correct anatomic place . 
patella alta and the adolescent growth spurt . the presence of patella alta has been linked to recurrent dislocation of the patella and the patello-femoral stress syndrome . it is not known whether patella alta is an inherited or acquired trait . to investigate the relationship of patella during the adolescent growth spurt , serial orthoroentgenograms ( growth study films ) were retrospectively analyzed in 19 patients . two were found in whom proximal patella migration could be correlated ( r = 0.85 ) with femoral growth rate . this was significant at the p = 0.01 level . girls had a higher correlation of patella height to growth rate than boys . in certain cases , patella alta is an acquired rather than inherited condition ; this supports the theory that overgrowth during the growth spurt can lead to patella alta in some individuals . 
accurate interpretation of the lachman test . in a consecutive series of patients with knee complaints , tibial rotation consistently affected the interpretation of the lachman test ( passive anterior tibial translation in slight knee flexion ) . to perform the lachman test correctly , the anterior tibial force must be applied posteromedially on the proximal tibia . this is best achieved by having the leg under examination on the same side of the bed as the examiner , and with slight external tibial rotation . reaching across the bed to examine either leg can create either false positive or false negative lachman results due to inadvertent tibial rotation ( internal tibial rotation decreases translation ) and inaccurate comparisons of the injured and normal legs . the importance of tibial rotation must be recognized if the lachman test is to be used reliably and with maximum sensitivity . 
medial tibial pain . a prospective study of its cause among military recruits . in a prospective study of 295 infantry recruits during 14 weeks of basic training , 41 % had medial tibial pain . routine scintigraphic evaluation in cases of medial tibial bone pain showed that 63 % had abnormalities . a stress fracture was found in 46 % . only two patients had periostitis . none had ischemic medial compartment syndrome . physical examination could not differentiate between cases with medial tibial bone pain secondary to stress fractures and those with scintigraphically normal tibias . when both pain and swelling were localized in the middle one-third of the tibia , the lesion most likely proved to be a stress fracture . 
intraarticular methylprednisolone acetate in knee arthrotomy . ninety-eight arthrotomy patients undergoing meniscectomy were given intraoperative intraarticular methylprednisolone ( 40 mg ) or placebo using double-blind technique and were evaluated clinically at three days , two weeks , four weeks , eight weeks , and twelve weeks after operation . patients who received methylprednisolone showed small but statistically significant accelerated rehabilitation time with respect to subjectively evaluated pain and range of motion , through two weeks after operation . after two weeks , there was no further advantage over placebo through 12 weeks of rehabilitation . 
tibial torsion in patients with medial-type osteoarthritic knee . computed tomography measurements of tibial torsion were evaluated in 85 patients with medial-type osteoarthritic knees and in 24 normal adults . although there were no differences in the degrees of femoral torsion or knee joint rotation , external tibial torsion was observed to have a mean value of 11.3 degrees , significantly smaller than the 23.5 degrees observed in the normal adults ( p less than 0.01 ) . the more advanced the osteoarthritic stage , the greater was the reduction in external tibial torsion . reduction of external torsion of the tibia was most severe at the proximal tibial metaphysis . 
ipsilateral femoral neck and shaft fractures . report of two cases using an alternate technique . a technique for ipsilateral femoral neck and shaft fracture using the sliding compression hip screw with plate combined with trochanteric antegrade ender nailing of the femur was applied in two cases . ender nails can be passed without difficulty past a compression hip screw and the bicortical plating screws . the hip and femur can be fixed internally through a single approach in a single position . sliding compression hip screw devices can provide excellent preliminary stable femoral neck fixation . blood supply to the femoral head is not disturbed while the femoral intramedullary fixation is performed . antegrade ender nailing avoids the common knee complications associated with other retrograde techniques . decreased operative time , less blood loss , less technical difficulty , and early mobilization are important factors in the multiple-injured patient . femoral intramedullary fixation may require open reduction , circlerage to ensure stability , and maintenance of alignment in case of significant comminution to allow early crutch ambulation . this mode of fixation may be advantageous for selected cases . 
14-year follow-up study of a patient with massive calcar resorption . a case report . the authors present an in-depth clinical , radiographic , and pathologic analysis of a 62-year-old man with massive bone reabsorption around the proximal femur in a total hip arthroplasty ( tha ) . the tha was revised 13 years after implantation . thirty millimeters of calcar resorption was noted radiographically . evidence of stem bending was present on examination of the femoral implant , and marked wear of the acetabular cup was noted . the pathologic evaluation of removed calcar bone and cement revealed a histiocytic mass invading the bone . intracellular and extracellular polymethylene debris was noted within the invasive mass . evidence of fragmented methylmethacrylate cement was also present . the bone-cement interface in the excised calcar region contained segments that showed active bone remodelling around the cement without an interposed membrane . it is possible that this case of calcar resorption began with histiocytic activation and recruitment by polyethylene wear debris followed by active bone lysis . the process may be perpetuated by the fragmentation of cement , as motion occurred at the calcar bone-cement interface , and may represent an extreme example of a process occurring in cases of calcar resorption in general . 
closed percutaneous drilling for osteochondritis dissecans of the talus . a report of two cases . two cases of osteochondritis dissecans of the talar dome treated by closed percutaneous drilling are presented to illustrate a procedure for high-risk patients . the operation is performed with the aid of an image intensifier . the ostoechondral fragment is percutaneously drilled to avoid open operation and osteotomizing the medial malleolus . 
etiology of osteoarthritis of the hip . more than 90 % of patients with so-called primary or idiopathic osteoarthritis of the hips in whom sufficient data were available to make an assessment of the normality of the hip joint at the cessation of growth clearly showed demonstrable abnormalities in the hip joint . the most common are mild acetabular dysplasia and / or pistol grip deformity . this latter deformity is associated with mild slipped capital femoral epiphysis ( recognized or unrecognized at the time ) , legg-perthes ' disease ( recognized or unrecognized at the time ) , multiple epiphyseal dysplasia , spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia , and / or the presence of an intraacetabular labrum , as well as , in certain instances , acetabular dysplasia . when these abnormalities are taken in conjunction with the detection of other metabolic abnormalities that can lead to osteoarthritis of the hip and which may not be recognized readily , such as hemochromatosis , ochronosis , calcium pyrophosphate disease , and monarticular rheumatoid arthritis , it seems clear that either osteoarthritis of the hip does not exist at all as a primary disease entity or , if it does , is extraordinarily rare . 
fracture dislocation of the calcaneus . a report of two cases . in two typical cases of calcaneal fracture dislocation , the primary fracture , which runs forward and medially from a point behind the sustentaculum tali , is associated with inversion of the hindfoot . the calcaneus splits into a small anteromedial and a larger posterolateral fragment . rupture of the lateral collateral ligament allows the posterolateral calcaneal fragment to move laterally to lie immediately subjacent to the distal fibula . closed reduction is impossible . open reduction of this rare fracture dislocation is essential . a lateral approach to the calcaneus is generally sufficient , but a second medial incision may be required . 
radioulnar synostosis following an isolated fracture of the ulnar shaft . a case report . in the case of a 19-year-old man , overuse of his nondominant forearm resulted in a radioulnar synostosis . despite the persistence of the synostosis , the patient adapted to loss of forearm rotation . no further treatment was necessary . isolated fractures of the ulnar shaft are slow in healing . several authors observed that early function may be beneficial . however , excessive activity causing motion at the fracture site may cause subperiosteal hemorrhage and soft tissue trauma and may stimulate exuberant callus formation . fractures of the ulnar shaft , even undisplaced , need to be immobilized to prevent overuse . 
facet joint degeneration as a cause of low back pain . recognizing that not all patients with low back pain have lumbar disc disease , the authors began to inject facet joints in june 1982 and have experience now with 21 patients , each injected under fluoroscopic control with a mixture of local anesthetic and steroid . one technical problem occurred when large osteophytes blocked access to the facet joints . otherwise , there were no complications and minimal morbidity . most patients ( 15 of 20 ; 75 % ) had an initial response , but a much smaller number ( six of 18 followed more than three months ; 33 % ) had a lasting response . repeat injections , when done , always led to temporary improvement but rarely to lasting relief ( one of five ; 20 % ) . three factors characterized the patients : a negative screening examination for other causes of back pain or sciatica ; back pain with tenderness localized over one or more facet joints ; and radiologic changes of degenerative joint disease within the facet joints . facet joint disease may be a significant cause of low back pain . the above three criteria are useful in clinical identification of patients with this problem . facet joint injections play an important role in the diagnosis and treatment of low back pain . 
the effects of chymopapain on prolapsed human intervertebral disc . a clinical and correlative histochemical study . light and electron microscopy were used to demonstrate extensive matrix degradation in a failed chymopapain-treated disc as compared with an untreated degenerative control disc . both specimens contained viable cells with patches of degenerative cells . there was a loss of disc height in the chymopapain-treated disc , but no improvement of symptoms . these results illustrated that even in well-circumscribed cases with documented disc protrusion into the spinal canal , the disc space narrowing following injection may aggravate the symptoms of nerve root entrapment , especially if a low-grade lateral recess stenosis is associated with the disc protrusion . the persistence or aggravation of symptoms probably is related to these anatomic considerations . the low level of enzyme activity in the injected area may or may not be correlated with the clinical response to treatment . 
stress fracture of the vertebral arch in osteopetrosis . stress fracture of the fourth vertebral arch occurred in a 21-year-old woman with a benign osteopetrosis . the fracture healed in three months after application of a body cast . it seems likely that the osteopetrotic bone resists force , in parallel with the cortical layer , but is fragile to forces at right angles to the plane of the cortical layer . 
the management of tibial fractures in acute spinal cord injury patients . of 34 tibia fractures in 28 acute spinal cord injuries , 13 patients had complete and 15 had incomplete neurologic lesions . tibia fractures were divided into three groups : group i , nonoperative treatment ; group ii , early open reduction and internal fixation ; and group iii , type iii open injuries . group i included 17 fractures , of which nine ( 53 % ) had delayed union , malunion , or nonunion . the average time to union was 6.5 months . seven patients had pressure sores and pulmonary emboli . eleven fractures were noted in group ii . one delayed union ( 9 % ) , one superficial wound infection that healed uneventfully , and one deep vein thrombosis were noted . the average time to union was 12 weeks . all six group iii tibias had delayed and nonunions , regardless of treatment . nonoperative fractures healed at a prolonged rate , while open reduction and internal fixation enhanced the rate and time to union . fractures treated with early open reduction and internal fixation , excluding group iii patients , had the least orthopedic and medical complications . open reduction and internal fixation is a justifiable alternative to nonoperative treatment in the uncomplicated tibia fracture regardless of neurologic lesion for improved medical and fracture care . 
the maquet procedure--anterior displacement of the tibial tubercle . indications , contraindications , and precautions . maquet recommended 2-2.5 cm of anterior tibial tubercle elevation for patients with symptomatic osteoarthrosis of the patellofemoral joint . fifty-three patients with osteoarthrosis were divided into three groups . the first 12 patients were treated by the classical maquet procedure ; 11 were totally relieved of patellofemoral pain , but there was one failure and five complications . in the second group of 32 patients , the patella was realigned within its groove to alter tracking of the patella to the proximal femoral condyles when necessary . fish-mouthing technique and insertion of a drain after surgery were done . after a two-year follow-up examination , there were two failures and five complications . a third group of nine patients was treated with ferguson 's modification of maquet 's operation using a 1.25-cm tibial tubercle elevation through a transverse incision ; two of the nine had complications , subsequently treated successfully by converting ferguson 's operation into the maquet operation , as modified for group ii . the modified maquet procedure can be an effective and reliable treatment of patellofemoral arthrosis with a relatively low incidence of complications . 
bilateral simultaneous achilles tendon ruptures . a case report and review of the literature . bilateral simultaneous achilles tendon ruptures are rare , with only ten cases reported in the english literature . our case is that of a 44-year-old woman , along with a review of the literature . affected persons usually are on chronic steroid treatment and in the fifth to seventh decades of life . the patient may have concomitant systemic disease , and the injury occurs with relatively mild trauma . the goals of treatment are mainly preventative , i.e. , cessation of steroids as soon as possible and protective bracing of the remaining intact achilles tendon . 
mineralization in in vitro cultures of rabbit marrow stromal cells . localized regions of mineralization were found in confluent cultures of rabbit marrow fibroblastic cells . the mineralized tissue developed within clusters of giant fat cells in the spaces between the cells . investigations with light and electron microscopy demonstrated that in these sites there was some differentiation of the fibroblastic cells in an osteogenic direction , shown by changes to more polygonal shapes , and the synthesis of well-banded collagen similar to that found in bone tissue . differentiation may be due , in part , to increased cell density in a confined space . growth of the mineralized tissue was observed in the living cultures with a fluorescence microscope . electron probe microanalysis confirmed that the mineral formed was hydroxyapatite . initiating sites of mineralization included membranous vesicular bodies , lipid , and products of cellular degeneration . once initiated , mineralization appeared to spread rapidly into adjacent collagenous and other structures , suggesting the appearance of a mixture of skeletal-type and dystrophic mineralization . 
a stochastic analysis of iliac trabecular bone dynamics . published normal histomorphometric data were used to derive distributions of thicknesses of trabecular plates and completed bone remodelling units ( the basic multicellular unit carrying out bone remodelling , the bmu , when completed is termed a structural unit bsu ) . a stochastic model was set up to investigate the predictions of current bmu theory . each of 100 trabecular " thicknesses " was drawn from the appropriate normal distribution using a pseudorandom number generator . each day , each of its two surfaces when quiescent was assumed to have a 1 : 900 chance of initiating a remodelling cycle . resorption ( active , 12 days ; reversal phase , 27 days ) was followed by formation ( 94 + / - 35 days ) and resulted in bmu balance when resorption depth was 36.8 + / - 9.2 micron . fenestration ( thickness less than 0 ) was assumed to lead to permanent loss of the trabecula . the original model unrealistically increased its mean trabecular thickness as thin trabeculae were lost . this was corrected by assuming that thin trabeculae had greater osteoblastic stimulation and a consequent tendency to thicken , perhaps due to higher mechanical loading . over 20 years , 14 % of trabeculae were lost when the bmu balance was exact and the distribution of trabecular thicknesses was unchanged . about one-half of fenestrations were due to deeper-than-average resorption cavities developing in thin trabeculae , and the remainder to coincident remodelling on both surfaces . a 10 % fall in osteoblast lifespan resulted in an additional 36.7 % loss of trabecular bone volume and mean trabecular thickness fell to 83.1 micron , compatible with courpron 's data . simulating more rapid mechanisms of bone loss , approximately 50 % of trabeculae could be lost after ten years by the arrest of bone formation ; the doubling of resorption depth with unchanged bone formation ; and a doubling in the rate of initiation of new bmus with unchanged bone formation rate , all three followed by complete recovery of bmu balance after only two years . in each case , mean trabecular thickness fell only transiently but trabeculae continued to be lost after recovery . prolonged osteoblast life span was the most likely explanation for the increased mean trabecular thicknesses and trabecular bone volumes seen in patients with osteoporosis , when treated with sodium fluoride plus calcium supplements or daily injections of parathyroid peptide hpth 1-34 . 
evolution of a case of multicentric giant cell tumor over a 23-year period . a 17-year-old girl had a multicentric giant cell tumor originating in the sphenoid and sella turcica that was observed for 23 years . during the first 12 years , the same lesion also appeared in the right proximal tibia and left distal radius . curettage of the tibial lesion and packing with processed bovine bone were followed by a chronic osteomyelitis with continued intermittent wound drainage . curettage of the radial lesion and packing it initially with autogenous iliac bone graft and subsequently with methylmethacrylate bone cement were followed by local recurrences . the radial lesion eventually was eradicated by a segmental resection of the distal radius . the resulting bony defect was bridged with a bicortical autogenous iliac graft and stabilized with a bone plate to produce a painless solid wrist fusion . no further tumor recurrence has been noted for the past two years . 
role of subchondral bone in the initiation and progression of cartilage damage . osteoarthrosis is a physiologic imbalance , a " joint failure " similar to " heart failure , " in which mechanical factors play a role . the initiation and progression of cartilage damage are distinct phenomena . one of the mechanisms of initiation may be a steep stiffness gradient in the underlying subchondral bone . progression of cartilage lesions probably requires stiffened subchondral bone . in such situations , transverse stresses at the base of the articular cartilage could cause deep horizontal splits in that tissue . the most likely cause of subchondral stiffening in an otherwise congruent joint is repeated failure of the musculoskeletal peak dynamic force attenuation mechanisms . the health and integrity of the overlying articular cartilage depends on the mechanical properties of its bony bed . in certain models of osteoarthrosis , alterations of the bony bed occur before the cartilage changes and suggest that this can occur in clinical conditions . stiffening of the subchondral bone also can effect joint conformation , which involves deformation of articular cartilage and bone to create maximum contact areas under load . 
immune pathology in polyarticular osteoarthritis . although osteoarthritis ( oa ) generally is considered a disorder of mechanical origin , the common occurrence of chronic mononuclear cell infiltrates in the synovium in conjunction with immunofluorescent evidence for immune-reactant products in cartilage of surgical case specimens ( knees , hips , and peripheral joints ) has suggested the local involvement of immune processes in the arthritis . further , the findings of polyarthropathy in the majority of these cases have indicated the propensity for a systemic disorder . wide variations were noted in both synovial and cartilage immune changes , quite different to those found in rheumatoid arthritis , along with the frequent asymptomatology of the many joints involved . these features , with and without other causative factors , suggest that immune reactions of local and / or systemic origin occur at times in a population at risk for joint degradation . 
estrogens and osteoarthritis . clinical and laboratory observations suggest that a relationship exists between sex hormones and the development of osteoarthritis . the mechanisms whereby these hormones influence the pathophysiology of osteoarthritis have been explored . tamoxifen , an estrogen antagonist , reduced erosive changes in meniscectomy-induced osteoarthritis in rabbits . by contrast , estradiol worsened it . there was no effect of either agent on the incidence of osteophytes in this model . both estradiol and tamoxifen affected proteoglycan , prostaglandin , and proteoglycanase production by cartilage components . these observations suggest that cartilage is a sex hormone-sensitive tissue . this may have therapeutic implications in the future . 
nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs in treatment of osteoarthritis . it is clear that some synovial inflammation occurs in joints affected by osteoarthritis ( oa ) and it is well recognized that many patients with oa experience a decrease in pain and joint stiffness following administration of salicylates or other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) . however , neither the extent to which synovitis contributes to the cartilage breakdown in oa nor the effects of chronic administration of nsaids on the natural history of oa in humans is known . recent studies indicate that several nsaids , including salicylates , suppress proteoglycan synthesis in articular cartilage in vitro . the effect on oa cartilage is more marked than that on normal cartilage . other studies show that salicylate feeding may suppress proteoglycan metabolism in degenerating cartilage in vivo , aggravating the decrease in proteoglycan content caused by the disease itself . however , no effect of salicylates on normal articular cartilage has been observed in vivo . in damaged cartilage the magnitude of nsaid-induced suppression of proteoglycan metabolism appears to be related inversely to the proteoglycan content of the tissue . in addition , the nsaids used in treatment of arthritis today may differ with respect to their in vivo effects on articular cartilage metabolism due , in part , to differences between the molar concentrations of these drugs in synovial fluid . 
pediatric management of nonpervasively " hyperactive " children . sixty-five children viewed by their teachers as hyperactive were evaluated as to whether they would benefit from stimulant medication . all underwent extensive neurodevelopmental and educational testing . additional information was obtained from school and parent questionnaires and interviews . children were not placed on medication unless they demonstrated characteristic impulsive , inattentive , and / or overactive behavior in two of three environments ( home , school , clinic ) . fifty-two children ( 80 % ) were not placed on medication . follow-up was completed in 80 percent , and 93 percent of these children were doing well with nonpharmacologic interventions . initial comparison of children not placed and placed on medication revealed that age , race , ses , amount of resource help and retention could not distinguish groups . children placed on medication had difficulties earlier in school ( chi 2 = 4.88 , p less than 0.05 ) , were n't as delayed academically ( chi 2 = 6.30 , p less than 0.05 ) and had less neurodevelopmental disorders ( chi 2 = 9.01 , p less than 0.01 ) . if a careful psychosocial history does not reveal impulsive , inattentive , and / or hyperactive behavior outside of school , a child should be evaluated to rule out neurodevelopmental and educational problems . 
the natural history of idiopathic chest pain in children . a follow-up study . repetitive chest pain of obscure origin is commonly encountered in older children and adolescents . a questionnaire study was conducted to determine the long-term outcome in 31 patients diagnosed as having idiopathic recurrent chest pain after an average 4.1-year follow-up period . although 45 percent reported having had persistent symptoms , chest pain had disappeared in 81 percent of those followed more than 3 years . equally reassuring is the fact that in no case did occult disease subsequently appear to account for the initial symptoms . this study supports the current clinical approach of limited diagnostic evaluation and reassurance in the management of these patients . 
ethyl alcohol ingestion in children . a 15-year review . information on ethyl alcohol intoxication in children is scarce . a retrospective study was conducted by chart reviews of 27 patients with documented ethanol ingestion admitted to the alberta children 's hospital , foothills provincial hospital , calgary general hospital or holy cross hospital from 1969 to 1984. six patients had hypoglycemia and one experienced a convulsion . the rate of alcohol elimination was found to be greater than 6.2 mm / l / hr ( 28.4 mg / dl / hr ) , approximately twice the rate seen in adults . six patients had hypokalemia , and two had severe metabolic acidosis . 
should the mobile intensive care unit respond to pediatric emergencies ? between october 1982 and october 1985 , the mobile intensive care unit ( micu ) in jerusalem responded to 625 pediatric emergencies , representing 5 % of the total micu case load . the most common medical problem was seizures , diagnosed in 205 cases ( 33 % ) . the second most frequent group related to trauma ( 175 cases ; 28 % ) . there were 71 cases ( 11.4 % ) of cardiac arrest . resuscitation was attempted in 37 , but there were no long-term survivors . almost all cardiac arrest patients were found in asystole , and most had antecedent serious medical problems . compared with the adult population , children were less likely to require or benefit from an advanced level of prehospital care . when resources for advanced care are limited , priority should be given to adult emergencies . 
normal radiographic findings after foreign body aspiration . when the history counts . foreign body aspiration in children is frequently associated with unilateral emphysema or atelectasis on chest x-ray . two cases are reported of tracheal or bilateral foreign bodies in which the original chest x-rays were read as normal , but the history was suggestive of the foreign body aspiration . early bronchoscopy can prevent the long-term morbidity that results from unrecognized tracheobronchial foreign bodies . 
endotracheal tube modification for therapy of right-sided pulmonary interstitial emphysema . 
growth of cavernous hemangioma with puberty [ letter ] 
the food exchange system in the treatment of anorexia nervosa [ letter ] 
enhanced dopamine renal responsiveness in patients with hypertension . the purpose of the study was to compare the renal effects of low doses of exogenous dopamine to assess the responsiveness of renal dopaminergic receptors in normotensive and hypertensive subjects . eight hypertensive patients and seven normotensive volunteer subjects were studied . inulin and para-aminohippuric ( pah ) clearances , natriuresis , and fractional excretion of sodium increased significantly after intravenous dosing with dopamine ( 2 micrograms / min / kg ) in both groups . these increases were significantly higher in hypertensive than in normotensive subjects : 31.8 % + / - 3.7 % vs . 16.2 % + / - 1.2 % for inulin clearance ( p less than 0.01 ) , 83.3 % + / - 10.5 % vs . 41.1 % + / - 3.4 % for pah clearance ( p less than 0.01 ) , and 331 % + / - 38 % vs . 216 % + / - 26 % for natriuresis ( p less than 0.01 ) . these findings suggest hyperresponsiveness to dopamine during hypertension . this enhanced response to exogenous dopamine can be considered as a further argument favoring the existence of a deficit in dopaminergic activity during hypertension . dopamine also induced a significant reduction in blood pressure and increased heart rate in hypertensive subjects but no significant change in blood pressure and heart rate occurred in normotensive subjects . 
effect of the acetylator phenotype on amrinone pharmacokinetics . ten healthy male subjects were phenotyped with isoniazid for their acetylator status and then received intravenous amrinone at a dose of 75 mg during a period of 10 minutes . blood samples were drawn at specified times during a 24-hour period after dosing . plasma concentrations of amrinone were determined by a specific hplc method . the plasma concentration data were fitted to a biexponential model by nonlinear regression . the mean apparent first-order elimination t1 / 2 for amrinone in the slow acetylators was 4.4 hours , whereas it was 2.0 hours in the fast acetylators ( p less than 0.05 ) . there was little difference in the volume of distribution at steady state . clearance was lower in the slow acetylators , 16.6 l / hr , than in the fast acetylators , 37.2 l / hr ( p less than 0.05 ) . the auc was higher for the slow acetylators , 4.96 micrograms x hr x ml-1 , than for the fast acetylators , 2.20 micrograms x hr x ml-1 ( p less than 0.01 ) . concentrations of amrinone and its n-acetyl metabolite in the urine from each volunteer were determined . the ratio of n-acetylamrinone to amrinone was calculated and , as expected , the fast acetylators had a higher ratio than did the slow acetylators ( p less than 0.01 ) . 
combined effects of buspirone and diazepam on objective and subjective tests of performance in healthy volunteers . the combined effects on performance of two anxiolytics with different mechanisms of action were evaluated double-blind and crossover in 12 healthy students . objective ( tracking , divided attention , maddox wing , etc . ) and subjective ( visual analogue scales and questionnaires ) tests were done before and twice after single oral doses . diazepam ( 0.15 and 0.30 mg / kg ) impaired performance dose relatedly and rendered the subjects drowsy , calm , mentally slow , and clumsy . buspirone ( 15 mg ) proved inactive in objective tests but matched diazepam ( 0.30 mg / kg ) subjectively . in combinations , buspirone added to the effects of diazepam in maddox wing and letter cancellation but tended to counteract diazepam effects on divided attention and learning acquisition . subjectively buspirone prolonged diazepam-induced sedation . increased calmness caused by diazepam was not affected by concomitant buspirone . it is suggested that combining small doses of buspirone to diazepam does not cause any additional decrement in psychomotor performance . possible advantages of the diazepam-buspirone combination in therapeutic use are discussed . 
quantitation of drug levels and platelet receptor blockade caused by a thromboxane antagonist . sq 28 , 668 is a structural analog of thromboxane a2 . it inhibits the effects of thromboxane in vitro . fifty-six healthy male subjects were given either placebo or three equal daily doses of sq 28 , 668 ranging from 25 to 1200 mg . plasma drug concentrations increased in a dose-dependent manner . the shape of the plasma drug concentration-time curve was consistent with enterohepatic recirculation . the effects of sq 28 , 668 on ex vivo platelet aggregation suggested that sq 28 , 668 is a specific competitive antagonist of thromboxane a2 with a platelet receptor dissociation constant ( estimated by schild analysis ) of about 19 nmol / l . approximately 94 % occupation of thromboxane receptors by sq 28 , 668 was required to produce a small but measurable increase of the template bleeding time . dose-ranging studies of antithrombotic drugs are difficult and expensive . for this reason , a method was developed that allows estimation of the dose of a thromboxane receptor antagonist that would be expected to be therapeutically equivalent to a given dose of aspirin . 
effect of cirrhosis and debrisoquin phenotype on the disposition and effects of pinacidil . pinacidil is an investigational vasodilator currently undergoing clinical trials as an antihypertensive agent . it is metabolized in humans to pinacidil n-oxide . to determine whether pinacidil 's metabolism or effects were influenced by either liver disease or the subject 's debrisoquin phenotype , eight patients with chronic stable cirrhosis and 13 healthy subjects were studied . seven of the healthy volunteers were extensive metabolizers of debrisoquin , whereas six were of the poor metabolizer phenotype . neither the clearance of pinacidil nor the production of the n-oxide was altered by the subjects ' debrisoquin phenotype . cirrhosis produced a 50 % reduction in pinacidil 's clearance ( 20.7 + / - 1.4 vs . 42.1 + / - 5.1 l / hr ; p less than 0.0005 ) and a prolongation in the elimination t1 / 2 from 3.9 + / - 0.3 to 6.1 + / - 0.6 hours ( p less than 0.01 ) . less pinacidil was metabolized to the n-oxide metabolite in the patients with cirrhosis than in the normal individuals . thus pinacidil 's metabolism and clearance are reduced in patients with cirrhosis but are independent of debrisoquin phenotype . 
ritodrine pharmacokinetics . the purpose of this study was to add to the limited information available regarding the pharmacology of ritodrine in the peripartum period when treatment fails and labor is not inhibited . plasma or urine samples from eight parturients and 13 infants were studied ; in addition plasma samples at delivery were obtained from a total of 26 mothers and infants . all the mothers received ritodrine in the 24 hours before delivery . plasma and urine ritodrine ( free and conjugated ) were determined with hplc by electrochemical detection . in maternal plasma , an apparent rapid distribution phase with a t1 / 2 of 32 + / - 21 minutes was followed by a prolonged equilibrium phase with a t1 / 2 of 17 + / - 10 hours . seventy-six percent of the ritodrine excreted by the mother was in the form of a conjugate . ninety percent of the ritodrine excreted by the neonate was also excreted in the form of a conjugate . 
the effect of single intravenous doses of cimetidine or ranitidine on gastric secretion . intravenous cimetidine , 300 mg or 400 mg , or ranitidine , 50 mg , was administered as a single dose to 36 volunteers in a randomized , crossover fashion . aspirates of gastric juice were obtained after dosing , and the ph , titratable acidity , gastric fluid volume , and gastric acid output were determined from baseline through 71 / 2 hours for each subject . each intervention significantly increased ph and suppressed hydrogen ion concentration , gastric fluid volume , and gastric acid output . both the magnitudes of the changes when compared with baseline and the time of the mean maximum effects were similar in all three drug regimens . the effect of all three interventions on gastric fluid volume and gastric acid output diminished sharply after 6 hours . the data indicate that the gastric secretory response to all three interventions did not differ substantially . 
systemic absorption of inhaled epinephrine . to determine the systemic absorption of epinephrine when it is given by inhalation , six normal volunteers were given 15 puffs , followed by 30 puffs , of epinephrine from a pressurized aerosol ( 160 micrograms epinephrine / puff ) . the peak mean ( + / - se ) plasma epinephrine levels were 1.50 ( + / - 0.61 ) and 4.22 ( + / - 1.93 ) nmol / l 1 minute after each dose , respectively . the effect on physiologic finger tremor correlated with the plasma epinephrine level and returned to baseline 20 minutes after taking the higher dose . there was a small fall in mean plasma potassium levels of 0.45 mmol / l and a small rise in plasma glucose levels of 0.81 mmol / l . on a separate occasion an injection of 0.3 ml of 1 / 1000 ( 300 micrograms ) epinephrine was given subcutaneously to the same individuals . this caused a peak plasma epinephrine level of 2.43 ( + / - 0.47 ) nmol / l at 10 minutes , and this was still raised at 2.05 ( + / - 0.41 ) nmol / l after 40 minutes . the maximum fall in the mean plasma potassium level was 0.43 mmol / l after the injection . 
effect of the calcium channel blocker nitrendipine on left ventricular mass in patients with hypertension . reductions in left ventricular ( lv ) mass have been reported after antihypertensive therapy with certain sympatholytic agents and converting enzyme inhibitors , but little or no improvement has been noted after vasodilator therapy . in this study we evaluated the effect of the calcium channel blocker nitrendipine on echocardiographic lv mass . during a 12-month period , nitrendipine was used as monotherapy in 30 patients and in combination with propranolol or a diuretic in an additional 28 patients . nitrendipine monotherapy lowered supine blood pressure from 148 / 97 to 136 / 83 mm hg , but lv mass did not change significantly . supine blood pressure decreased from 155 / 103 to 134 / 86 mm hg in patients receiving combination therapy but , again , changes in lv mass were not significant . these data suggest that nitrendipine is effective in lowering blood pressure , but this is not associated with a significant decrease in lv mass in patients with mild hypertension . 
treatment of depression in the elderly . 
treatment of patients with vertebrobasilar occlusive disease . 
clinical aspects of insomnia . 
laser angioplasty . 
psychosis and pregnancy . close , continuous collaboration among the obstetrician , the psychiatrist , and nurses in both disciplines is required to improve the mental health of a patient whose psychosis is associated with pregnancy . these most complex cases require not " either / or " management but the combined attention of specialists in both disciplines . 
schizophrenia and antipsychotic drugs . a variety of effective drugs are available for the treatment of schizophrenia . knowledge of the side-effect spectrum of the various classes of antipsychotic drugs is necessary for the clinician to arrive at a rational choice of medication . in general , the preferred drug will be a high-potency neuroleptic . the following basic principles of clinical psychopharmacology should be followed : consider risk and benefits ; clinical experience is prerequisite ; establish the diagnosis ; select the appropriate class of psychotropic drug for the primary diagnosis ; within drug class , the drugs are usually equally effective for patients with the diagnosis ; give a dose that is high enough to be effective ; choose target symptoms that can be monitored to indicate when to stop or increase the drug ; avoid use of multiple drugs when possible ; drugs are only one element in a comprehensive treatment strategy . other modalities need equally careful consideration , e.g. , psychotherapy , group therapy , family treatment , and vocational rehabilitation ; and consultation with other subspecialists should be sought readily when indicated . 
management of anxiety in the elderly . clinicians need to be aware of the cardinal manifestations of clinical anxiety in their geriatric patients . a variety of psychotherapeutic , behavioral , and chemical interventions can effectively and safely treat anxiety in geriatric patients and thereby greatly diminish morbidity and mortality . 
clinical and neurobiologic implications of antipsychotic-induced movement disorders . 
electrically induced seizures ( ect ) . 
panic anxiety : diagnosis , etiology , and treatment . 
regional variation in elicitation of contact urticaria syndrome ( immediate hypersensitivity syndrome ) : shrimp . 
contact allergy caused by bamboo shoots . 
disperse blue 106 , a strong sensitizer . 
paraphenylenediamine-free hair coloring mousse . 
contact dermatitis to ibuprofen . 
catgut dermatitis . 
contact dermatitis from benzydamine hydrochloride . 
contact dermatitis to basic red 46. 
cheilitis : occult allergy to cinnamic aldehyde . 
allergic contact dermatitis to phenylephrine . 
allergic contact dermatitis to colophony in a violoncellist . 
contact allergy to centelase . 
contact allergy to amcinonide . 
occupational photocontact dermatitis from olaquindox . 
contact allergy to antiviral agents . 
allergy to perfume mixture . 
contact eczema from cow saliva . 
photosensitivity to oak moss [ letter ] 
a new method for intraoral patch testing . intraoral patch testing was performed in 3 subjects , 2 of whom were contact sensitive to nickel . maxillary acrylic plates carrying test pieces containing 66 % nickel were applied for 48 h , and readings were performed 24 h after removal . few if any clinical signs were detected , but biopsies from the mucosal contact sites showed lichenoid reactions . biopsies from control sites showed no or slight non-specific inflammatory reactions . 
dermatitis from quinazoline oxide . dermatitis from 2-chloromethyl-4-phenyl-6-chloroquinazoline-3-oxide , an intermediate product in the preparation of chlorodiazepoxide , is described in 29 workers at a pharmaceutical plant . all were patch test positive to quinazoline oxide ( 1 % ) and six to 0.05 % . in most patients , the face was earlier and more severely involved than the hands . some were sensitized even if they did not have much contact with it , doing such work as washing the clothing of other workers , or working at a distance of 100 m from the production line building . 
allergic contact sensitization to the glycidyl ester of hexahydrophthalic acid in a cutting oil . allergic contact dermatitis is reported in 5 machine operatives working with a cutting oil containing an epoxy compound used as a stabilizer . positive patch test reactions to this compound were obtained in all 5 men and were negative in 25 controls . 
skin reflectance measurements of patch test responses . skin reflectance values were used as an objective measure of skin haemoglobin content at patch test sites to facilitate quantification of the erythematous response to contact allergens in patients with allergic contact dermatitis . reflectance measurements of patch test responses correlated well with the clinical scoring and provided a numerical measure of reaction severity . experimental contact allergen formulations were also evaluated by this method . 
discomfort from rubber gloves indicating contact urticaria . rubber glove intolerance is a common dermatological problem and hypersensitivity of both delayed and immediate types occur . in order to study immediate skin reactions induced by rubber gloves , 15 patients with discomfort and itch produced by rubber gloves were examined . the patients were provoked by wearing rubber gloves , scratch tested with gloves , rubber chemicals and powders . rast-tests were performed using an extract from the rubber tree ( hevea brasiliensis ) . in 6 / 15 patients , contact urticaria was confirmed , in 3 of whom ige antibodies to latex were demonstrated . 
sensitization to epichlorohydrin and epoxy system components . in an epoxy resin manufacturing plant , 26 of 228 ( 11.4 % ) workers had work-related eruptions ; 19 were patch tested . the test series consisted of chemicals used in the manufacturing process , a standard battery and some other sensitizers . the prevalence of sensitization to epichlorohydrin and / or epoxy resins in the whole group was 6.1 % . a relatively high prevalence ( 3.5 % ) of epichlorohydrin sensitization was found . 10 cases of sensitization to liquid epoxy resin ( mw about 385 ) were observed , in 7 cases combined with allergy to solid epoxy resin ( mw 980 ) . sensitization to bisphenol a was not seen . 
contact dermatitis to cephalexin . 
occupational contact sensitivity in oculists . 
allergic contact dermatitis from uv-curing acrylate in the manufacture of optical fibres . 
allergic contact dermatitis from isopropyl dibenzoylmethane . 
contact dermatitis due to cyclopyroxolamine . 
immediate hypersensitivity to nickel . 
contact dermatitis to ethambutol . 
contact allergy to chloroacetamide in an " anti-wrinkle serum " . 
contact dermatitis to pastinaca sativa . 
an analysis of 501 consecutive contact clinic consultations . a simple micro-computer program was used to analyse the results of testing 501 consecutive patients attending a patch test clinic . 64 % of males and 71 % of females had positive tests ; 17 % of males and 12 % of females had occupational dermatitis ; 16 % of males and 15 % of females had irritant contact dermatitis ; and 13 % of males and 19 % of females had a history of atopic eczema . 
contact dermatitis from grevillea ' robyn gordon ' . grevillea ' robyn gordon ' is an australian hybrid plant which may cause allergic contact dermatitis . over the past 8 years , it has been planted extensively in australia and is now being exported to the united states and other western countries . recently , an explosion in incidence of contact dermatitis due to this plant has been seen . 24 patients who were suspected of being sensitive to it were patch tested to fresh plant and extracts with confirmation of sensitivity . a cross sensitivity to toxicodendron was demonstrated clinically and on patch testing . the allergen in toxicodendron , 3 pentadecylcatechol , is closely linked in chemical structure to 5-pentadecylresorcinol , present in grevillea banksii and tridecylresorcinol in grevillea robusta . patch testing in patients sensitive to grevillea ' robyn gordon ' with tridecylresorcinol produced positive reactions , thus implicating the sensitizing role of long chain alkyl resorcinols in grevillea ' robyn gordon ' allergy . there is a likelihood that this sensitizing potential extends to other plants of the grevillea genus , e.g. , grevillea robusta . with the spread of grevillea ' robyn gordon ' to other markets , this problem will become increasingly common . 
occupational skin disease in hospital cleaning and kitchen workers . skin disorders were reported in 33 % of catering staff and 35 % of women cleaners who returned a questionnaire , and were employed in a large hospital . hand dermatitis occurred in 15 % of the caterers and 12 % of the cleaners . in the majority , the dermatitis was irritant in origin and related to their wet work occupations . cleaners had a high prevalence of jewellery dermatitis . limited patch testing revealed a majority positive to nickel , but a third were negative , indicating that jewellery reactions often but not invariably predict nickel sensitivity . few subjects were atopic , but some psoriatic patients with hand problems were encountered . most workers were able to carry on in their occupations despite having hand dermatitis . 
age and sex incidence of allergic contact dermatitis . a retrospective study of patients patch tested between 1968 and 1970 was undertaken and case records of 200 patients with unequivocal positive patch tests were studied for age and sex distribution . there was an overall female preponderance ( 61 % ) , with 2 peaks of incidence in the 10-20 and 40-50 year age groups in females , but only 1 peak of incidence in the 40-50 year age group in males . there was a steady decline in all sensitivities after the 6th decade of life in both sexes . nickel sensitivity was more common in females ( 92 % ) , whereas dichromate sensitivity predominated in males ( 64 % ) . of the 200 patients , only 5 ( 2.5 % ) were atopics , all of whom were females . 
sensitization to sodium hypochlorite causing hand dermatitis . 2 patients are reported with chronic hand dermatitis related to sensitization to sodium hypochlorite , as the active component in a bleaching product . to avoid irritant reactions in patch testing , a sodium hypochlorite concentration of 1.0 % appeared to be useful . it is concluded that with regard to the frequent use of bleaching agents , allergy to sodium hypochlorite must be considered in certain cases of unidentified chronic allergic hand dermatitis . 
animal model for assessment of skin irritancy . irritant skin reactions from repeated open applications of low concentrations of sodium lauryl sulphate ( sls ) have been studied macroscopically and microscopically in guinea pigs . after 3 applications daily for 3 days , 2 % sls aqueous solutions gave a naked eye assessment , increase in epidermal thickness and total dermal inflammatory cell response , which was greater than for a 1 % sls solution . the dermal inflammatory cell response was mainly mononuclear ( lymphocytic ) in nature . with the sls reactions as control , various organic solvents were studied and ranked against the sls reactions and internally . trichlorethylene was the most irritant solvent , ranking as high as 2 % sls . other chlorinated hydrocarbons and aromatic hydrocarbons tested caused irritant reactions . the alcohols and acetone gave no reaction . white spirit was as irritant as trichlorethylene . thinners were less irritant , around the level of the 1 % sls control reaction . the 4-day experimental design is a convenient and suitable animal model for screening irritant potential , and provides information relevant to the pathogenesis of irritant contact reactions . 
irritation , sensitization , photoirritation and photosensitization assays with a glyphosate herbicide . glyphosate , a widely utilized herbicide , was evaluated for acute irritation , cumulative irritation , photoirritation and allergic and photoallergic contact potential in 346 volunteers . the herbicide was less irritant than a standard liquid dishwashing detergent and a general all purpose cleaner . there was no evidence for the induction of photoirritation , allergic or photoallergic contact dermatitis . 10 % glyphosate in water is proposed as a diagnostic patch test concentration . 
the sensitizing capacity of coumarins ( i ) . 10 coumarins used in perfumery , cosmetics and ointments , have been investigated by 2 different methods to determine their sensitizing capacity . only 1 of the compounds , 4-methyl-esculetin , which serves as a sunscreen agent , was found to be a weak sensitizer . all other coumarins were negative . it is assumed that this dihydroxycoumarin becomes a sensitizer when it is enzymically oxidized to the corresponding orthoquinone in the skin . 
chloracne from pentachlorophenol-preserved wood . a patient is presented who developed chloracne after exposure to lumber which was pressure-treated with pentachlorophenol ( pcp ) . it was presumed that his disease arose via percutaneous absorption of polychlorinated aromatic compounds ( dioxins and furans ) which are known to contaminate technical grade pcp . the patient 's condition improved after treatment with oral isotretinoin . 
cobalt and nickel content of asian cements . the total cobalt and nickel concentration of 11 brands of asian cement ranged from 8.1 to 14.2 micrograms / g and 14.9 to 28.5 micrograms / g , respectively . these metals exist mainly as insoluble salts ; the water-soluble concentration of cobalt and nickel in the cements ranged from 0.39 to 0.65 micrograms / g and from 0-1.2 micrograms / g , respectively . 1.5 % ( 4 / 272 ) of construction workers in a prefabrication construction factory had cobalt sensitivity . all had allergic contact dermatitis from chromate in cement . no worker had isolated cobalt sensitivity and cement dermatitis . it appeared that sensitization to cobalt in cement occurs only secondarily to an existing cement dermatitis . 1.8 % ( 5 / 272 ) workers had nickel sensitivity : 2 with allergic contact dermatitis to nickel in their watches , 2 were asymptomatic and 1 had allergic contact dermatitis to chromate and cobalt in cement . the low prevalence of cobalt and nickel sensitivity from cement was probably related to the low concentration of soluble cobalt and nickel salts in the cement . however , these insoluble salts can form soluble complexes with body fluids on eczematous skin and sensitize the skin . 
permeation of nickel salts through human skin in vitro . the impact of occlusion and the role of the counter ion on the permeation of nickel ions through skin have been examined using excised human skin . a highly sensitive electrochemical method was used to quantify the amount of nickel permeating the skin . the investigations show that nickel ions are capable of permeating the skin barrier when applied under occlusion . the process is slow , having a lag time of approximately 50 h . the permeation rate , and thus the physical amount being bioavailable , is considerably increased when aqueous nickel chloride is used in comparison with aqueous nickel sulphate . with respect to nickel permeation of the skin , we conclude that the choice of salt is an important consideration in patch testing . 
eyelid dermatitis : the role of atopy and contact allergy . patients with eyelid dermatitis were studied with patch tests and a clinical point method for the diagnosis of atopic skin disease . in 38 patients , contact allergy was found in 11. the dermatitis was an expression of atopic dermatitis in 15 patients . 
contact dermatitis and asthma from reactive dyes . 
contact dermatitis from tetrachloroisophthalonitrile in paint . 
systemic reactions due to thiomersal . 
delayed hypersensitivity to oral cimetidine . 
puhang-induced purpura . 
allergic contact dermatitis due to diisopropyl sebacate . 
patch testing with colophony at 60 % concentration . 
rash from oral codeine [ letter ] 
c3a and adult respiratory distress syndrome after massive transfusion . we compared the degree of complement activation in 15 patients receiving massive blood transfusions and 21 patients with the septic syndrome and examined its association with other risk factors for adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) . patients with massive transfusion ( n = 8 ) as their only risk factor for ards had lower c3a levels ( 250 + / - 80 ng / ml ) and a lower incidence of ards ( 0 % ) than patients with massive transfusion plus other risk factors ( n = 7 ; c3a , 600 + / - 120 ng / ml ; ards , 55 % ) or patients with the septic syndrome ( n = 21 ; c3a , 540 + / - 80 ng / ml ; ards , 19 % ) . in our patients , the degree of complement activation appeared to reflect the presence of complicating clinical conditions . 
cardiorespiratory and conjunctival oxygen tension monitoring during resuscitation from hemorrhage . placement of an unheated miniaturized oxygen electrode against the palpebral conjunctiva permits noninvasive measurement of tissue oxygen tension . in this study , the relationship between conjunctival oxygen tension ( pcjo2 ) and standard cardiorespiratory variables was examined during a sequential resuscitation protocol after acute hemorrhage . anesthetized dogs were rapidly bled to a mean arterial pressure of 40 mm hg and then retransfused with the shed blood in a stepwise fashion . pcjo2 fell to 2 % of control values after hemorrhage and did not return to prehemorrhage values until more than 90 % of the shed blood had been reinfused . pcjo2 was among the last set of cardiorespiratory variables to return to control values during resuscitation and was the last noninvasive variable to normalize . the ratio of pcjo2 to arterial oxygen tension decreased from a prehemorrhage value of 0.76 + / - 0.05 ( sem ) to 0.02 + / - 0.003 after hemorrhage , and did not increase to values greater than 0.50 until resuscitation was more than 90 % complete . conjunctival oxygen monitoring may play an important role in assessing the adequacy of resuscitation after acute hemorrhage . 
metabolism in acute cerebrovascular disease . oxygen consumption ( vo2 ) , co2 production , respiratory quotient , resting metabolic expenditure ( rme ) , and urine catecholamine levels were measured in 52 patients with acute cerebrovascular disease . rme correlated positively with urinary norepinephrine and epinephrine excretion ; its maximum value was 187 % higher than expected for an uninjured resting person of equivalent age , sex , and size . vo2 correlated positively with the urinary catecholamine excretion . these facts imply that the sympathetic nervous system might directly influence vo2 and rme . moreover , the hypermetabolic state should be taken into consideration when caring for patients with cerebrovascular disease , as malnutrition might cause weight loss and a decrease in immunity . 
icu survival of patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . the icu records of 31 patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome were reviewed . of 23 ( 74 % ) patients admitted for respiratory failure requiring intubation and mechanical ventilation , 20 ( 87 % ) patients had pneumocystis carinii and / or cytomegalovirus pneumonia . of the eight patients admitted without respiratory failure , five ( 63 % ) were monitored after brain biopsy . respiratory failure patients remained in the icu for 10 + / - 1 days , compared to 5 + / - 1 days for those without respiratory failure ( p less than .05 ) . overall mortality was 24 patients ( 77 % ) ; 21 ( 91 % ) of 23 respiratory failure patients died , compared to three ( 38 % ) of the eight without respiratory failure ( p less than .01 ) . all seven icu survivors lived to hospital discharge . 
work of breathing through different sized endotracheal tubes . the ability to breathe spontaneously through an endotracheal tube is a usual prerequisite before an intubated patient can have it removed . other researchers have measured air flow resistance through endotracheal tubes . in this study , we evaluated work of breathing in joules per min and tension-time index while three normal volunteers breathed through different sized endotracheal tubes . four 27.5-cm endotracheal tubes were used . subjects breathed with a constant tidal volume of 500 ml . by increasing respiratory frequency , minute ventilation was increased from 5 to 30 l / min . as tube diameter decreased , work and the tension-time index increased . changes were magnified at higher minute ventilations through the 6- and 7-mm endotracheal tubes , and the tension-time index critical fatigue level of 0.15 was approached or exceeded . 
hemodynamic and oxygen transport effects of dobutamine in critically ill general surgical patients . the effects of dobutamine on hemodynamic and oxygen transport were evaluated in 43 studies on 34 critically ill general ( noncardiac ) surgical patients . dobutamine , beginning at a low dose ( 2.5 micrograms / kg x min ) significantly increased cardiac index ( ci ) , oxygen delivery ( do2 ) , and oxygen consumption ( vo2 ) , while decreasing mean arterial pressure , pulmonary artery and wedge pressures , and systemic and pulmonary vascular resistances ; blood gases , ph , and pulmonary shunt were not significantly changed . these effects were seen in postoperative and septic patients , as well as in patients with normal , low , and high control ci . these responses were poor in terminally ill and hypovolemic patients ; however , when the latter were given additional fluids , their responses were markedly improved . the hemodynamic effects of dobutamine are well known , but the do2 and vo2 effects , which suggest improved tissue perfusion , have not been appreciated . 
comparison of transthoracic electrical impedance and thermodilution methods for measuring cardiac output . cardiac output was measured 120 times in 27 critically ill patients using the thermodilution and transthoracic electrical impedance methods . both the minimum and mean values for the distance between the inner electrodes , and a variety of values for the resistivity of blood ( rho ) were substituted in the kubicek 's empiric formula for calculating cardiac output by transthoracic electrical impedance . using the mean distance between the inner electrodes and a rho-value of 150 ohm x cm gave the best agreement between the methods ( mean difference 0.17 + / - 2.4 l / min ) . ventilation alone or with positive end-expiratory pressure did not significantly affect the bias of the estimate , but both affected its precision when compared with measurements in spontaneously breathing patients ( sd of mean difference 2.4 and 3.2 l / min , respectively , vs . 1.5 l / min ) . the pulmonary artery wedge pressure was significantly higher in patients with an abnormal diastolic impedance waveform ( zero-wave ) , but there was no relationship between wedge pressure and base impedance per unit length between the measuring electrodes . 
effect of high-dose dopamine on urine output in newborn infants . to achieve adequate arterial bp , adequate capillary filling time , and adequate peripheral pulses , hypotensive newborn infants often require higher doses of dopamine that reportedly reduce urine output in adults . whether these larger doses of dopamine also reduce urine output in newborns is not known . therefore , we determined the effects of administering high-dose dopamine ( more than 20 micrograms / kg x min ) on the urine output of 15 newborn infants . five infants were studied prospectively and ten retrospectively . in the prospective study , urine output was determined as the dose of dopamine was increased ; in the retrospective study , urine output was determined as the infants were being weaned from high doses of dopamine . both data sets demonstrate that administering high-dosage dopamine does not reduce the urine output of sick newborn infants . therefore , we conclude that doses of dopamine previously reported to decrease urine output in adults do not do so in sick newborn infants . consequently , when necessary , high doses of dopamine may be used in sick newborn infants to achieve cardiovascular stability without reducing urine output . 
transcutaneous carbon dioxide monitoring during neonatal transport . we studied the value of transcutaneous carbon dioxide ( ptcco2 ) monitoring during neonatal transport . thirty-two neonates with respiratory distress were alternately enrolled in an experimental group ( results of ptco2 and ptcco2 available for clinical management ) and a control group ( results of only ptco2 available ) . although differences were not significant , infants in the experimental group had more changes in the intermittent mandatory ventilation ( imv ) settings during transport , and more such infants arrived at the receiving hospital with acceptable ph and pco2 values . on arrival at the receiving hospital , two patients in the control group had acidosis and hypercarbia and were placed on imv immediately on arrival . no such patients were encountered in the experimental group . for patients needing imv during transport , the percentage of study time spent with ptcco2 measurements in the normal range ( 35 to 45 torr ) was greater for the experimental group ( p less than .02 ) . continuous ptcco2 monitoring during transport offers the opportunity to further decrease the risks of transporting a critically ill neonate . 
plasma fibronectin in severe infectious purpura of children . plasma fibronectin levels were determined in 34 children admitted with severe infectious purpura . fibronectin concentration was decreased in severe infectious purpura as in other sepsis , but there was no significant difference between shock and nonshock patients . fibronectin levels were lower in children with ecchymotic or necrotic purpura on admission than in those with petechial purpura ; they were lower in those who developed cutaneous sequelae , but it is not known if correction of fibronectin deficiency may limit the extent of purpura and prevent the cutaneous sequelae . 
early experience with continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration in critically ill pediatric patients . the applicability of continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration ( cavh ) for renal replacement therapy was evaluated in three infants and two young children with catastrophic medical and surgical illnesses . in the first four patients , cavh was used in conjunction with either peritoneal or hemodialysis . in the fifth patient , cavh was the sole renal replacement therapy employed ; in this critically ill anuric infant , we were best able to evaluate the ability of cavh to continuously control fluid , electrolyte , and acid-base balance , and allow the administration of adequate parenteral nutrition . the difficulties encountered were related to anticoagulation , establishment of adequate vascular access , and selection of an appropriate hemofilter for the performance of the technique . despite the application of suction-assistance , we were unable to effectively employ a prototype pediatric hemofilter to attain a level of plasma ultrafiltration consistent with the objectives of therapy . however , we were able to effectively and safely employ an adult hemofilter for these purposes ; modifications were made in the adult hemofilter system before its application in the smallest pediatric patients . our experience suggests that , even in critically ill infants , cavh can be successfully applied as an effective renal replacement therapy . however , further experience is required before its potential impact on patient survival can be assessed . 
spuriously high cardiac output from injecting thermal indicator through an ensheathed port . 
patient care categories : an approach to do-not-resuscitate decisions in a public teaching hospital . 
coma caused by ibuprofen overdose . 
acute epiglottitis in the adult . acute epiglottitis in the adult is uncommon . this case reports a young man with acute epiglottitis secondary to a bacteroides melanogenicus supraglottic abscess . this pathogen has not been previously described as being causitive of epiglottitis . 
anesthetic and ventilator mishaps : prevention and detection [ editorial ] 
the diabetic foot . 
the greater omentum : its applicability to cancer surgery and cancer therapy . 
treatment of dyspnea with psychotropic agents [ editorial ] 
clinical aspects of pulmonary amyloidosis [ editorial ] 
bronchoalveolar lavage can be clinically useful [ editorial ] 
post-extubation pulmonary edema following anesthesia induced by upper airway obstruction . are certain patients at increased risk ? pulmonary edema due to upper airway obstruction can be observed in a variety of clinical situations . the predominant mechanism is increased negative intrathoracic pressure , although hypoxia and cardiac and neurologic factors may contribute . laryngospasm associated with intubation and general anesthesia is a common cause of pulmonary edema in children . however , only seven cases of pulmonary edema presumably due to laryngospasm have been reported in adolescents and adults . five of the seven had other risk factors for upper airway obstruction , and in four , the diagnosis of " laryngospasm " could be explained by other factors . patients with underlying risk factors for upper airway obstruction , such as a forme fruste of sleep apnea or nasopharyngeal abnormalities , appear to be at increased risk for the development of pulmonary edema in the setting of intubation and anesthesia . this form of pulmonary edema usually resolves rapidly without the need for aggressive therapy or invasive monitoring . 
central vs peripheral venous catheters in critically ill patients . a prospective study of 2 , 209 intravenous catheters was performed in a multidisciplinary intensive care unit to determine when and why catheters were removed and which sites of insertion were associated with the least morbidity . techniques of insertion were vigorously supervised . central and peripheral catheters were cared for by identical protocols . overt phlebitis or inflammation around the site was 14 times as common with peripheral catheters ( 353 / 1 , 024 ) than with centrally inserted central catheters ( 18 / 713 ) , even though peripheral catheters were removed on the average at 2.9 days and centrally inserted central catheters at 6.2 days . pneumothorax occurred in seven out of 713 patients with centrally inserted central catheterization , one with hemothorax and two with pneumothoraces requiring thoracostomy tubes . five were treated successfully with simple catheter aspiration . three patients out of 1 , 496 with peripheral or peripherally inserted central catheters required phlebectomy for suppurative thrombophlebitis . we concluded that overall morbidity in critically ill patients is lower from centrally inserted central catheters than peripheral intravenous catheters , with peripherally inserted central catheters in an intermediate position . supervision of techniques of insertion has to be kept at a high level to keep complications of central catheterization at an acceptable level . peripheral catheter sites would be better maintained with more frequent replacement of the catheter . 
effects of medroxyprogesterone acetate in obstructive sleep apnea . we studied the effects of medroxyprogesterone acetate , a respiratory stimulant , on the incidence and duration of episodes of apnea and disordered breathing in 13 nonhypercapnic men with obstructive sleep apnea . nocturnal polysomnography was done before and after four weeks of treatment with medroxyprogesterone acetate ( 60 mg / day ) and one week after cessation of treatment . there were no significant ( p less than 0.05 ) differences in the mean frequency of apneic episodes per hour of sleep before ( 31.3 + / - 5.7 [ + / - se ] ) , during ( 26.8 + / - 6.6 ) , or after ( 23.6 + / - 7.0 ) treatment , or in the mean number of disordered breathing episodes per hour of sleep before ( 19.4 + / - 5.6 ) , during ( 21.4 + / - 5.8 ) , or after ( 23.1 + / - 6.3 ) the period of treatment . medroxyprogesterone did not alter significantly the total time of apnea or the total time for disordered breathing , expressed as percentages of total sleep time . arterial oxygen desaturation during apnea and disordered breathing did not change with treatment . medroxyprogesterone increased the minute ventilation and occlusion pressure responses to hypercapnia measured in the awake state ; however , the results of this study demonstrate that medroxyprogesterone does not improve the breathing disorders during sleep in the nonhypercapnic patient with obstructive sleep apnea . 
amyloidosis of the lower respiratory tract . clinical and pathologic features in a series of 21 patients . twenty one cases of amyloidosis of the lower respiratory tract were seen at a single center . in three patients , multifocal bronchial amyloid plaques led to stenosis and atelectasis , and in two , small pseudotumor masses were an incidental bronchoscopic finding . two patients had nodular parenchymal amyloidosis , in one of whom the lesions were progressive and in the other static . fifteen patients had diffuse parenchymal amyloidosis . two of these had severe interstitial involvement and died in respiratory failure ; eight had congestive cardiac failure , and parenchymal amyloidosis was a post-mortem finding ; two had senile cardiorespiratory amyloidosis , also found at autopsy ; and in three , the amyloidosis was associated with malignancy . the degree of respiratory embarrassment seemed to be related to the amount of amyloid in the gas diffusion zones , irrespective of the etiology of amyloidosis . 
effect of alprazolam on exercise and dyspnea in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . to evaluate the efficacy of a mild anxiolytic , alprazolam , in relieving dyspnea , we conducted a randomized , placebo-controlled double-blind study on patients with chronic obstructive lung disease . twenty-four patients had alprazolam ( 0.5 mg bid ) or placebo administered for one week , followed by placebo for one week , then either placebo or alprazolam for the third week . assessment tests were performed at the outset , end of the first and second weeks , and finally end of the third week . the parameters measured were : pulmonary function , exercise testing on a bicycle ergometer , and the distance covered in a 12 minute walk . subjective sensations of dyspnea at rest and during guarded exercise , as well as subjective feelings of calmness or anxiety were also recorded . there was no difference in mechanical lung function , but the po2 tended to decrease and pco2 to increase after alprazolam administration . the maximum exercise level attained and the distance covered in the 12 minute walk was unchanged . the subjective perception of dyspnea was the same before and after alprazolam , at rest and during exercise . we conclude that alprazolam is not effective in relieving exercise dyspnea in patients with obstructive lung disease . 
effect of mechanical ventilation on hepatic drug pharmacokinetics . mechanical ventilation was able to induce a decrease in cardiac output and regional blood flow , especially hepatic flow . thus , hepatic elimination of drugs with a high hepatic-extraction ratio , which was linked to alteration in hepatic blood flow , could be reduced during mechanical ventilation . the aim of this work was to determine the effect of mechanical ventilation on pharmacokinetic parameters of lidocaine , which is a well-known nonrestrictive elimination drug at the hepatic level . five patients ( mean age , 58 years ) with normal hepatic function and quite similar gasometric parameters before and after weaning from mechanical ventilation were studied . with a washout period of 48 hours between mechanical ventilation and spontaneous ventilation , each patient was submitted to the following protocol : lidocaine in a bolus ( 1.5 mg / kg intravenously ) , followed by infusion ( 1.0 to 1.7 mg / min for 120 minutes ) . the results were that the peak plasma concentration after the bolus during mechanical ventilation was 3.22 + / - 0.37 mg / l ( mean + / - se ) vs 2.40 + / - 0.35 mg / l during spontaneous ventilation ( p less than 0.02 ) . steady-state plasma concentration during mechanical ventilation was 2.10 + / - 0.20 mg / l vs 1.64 + / - 0.16 mg / l during spontaneous ventilation ( p less than 0.01 ) . total clearance was 604.2 + / - 87.0 ml / min during mechanical ventilation vs 775.0 + / - 112.1 ml / min during spontaneous ventilation ( p less than 0.01 ) . elimination half-life was 245.2 + / - 50.6 minutes during mechanical ventilation vs 160.0 + / - 40.6 minutes during spontaneous ventilation ( p less than 0.05 ) . distribution volume was 188.6 + / - 50.2 l during mechanical ventilation and 183.0 + / - 50.8 l during spontaneous ventilation ( not significant ) . these preliminary data clearly demonstrated a decrease in lidocaine elimination in patients submitted to mechanical ventilation , but the magnitude of dosage adjustment of such a highly hepatic-extracted drug in patients submitted to mechanical ventilation remains to be investigated . 
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of right and left internal mammary artery grafts . four patients with recurrent severe angina and evidence of myocardial ischemia two to six months after surgical coronary revascularization have been submitted to percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the distal insertion of internal mammary artery grafts or of the recipient vessel distal to it . these cases illustrate the feasibility and safety of transluminal angioplasty of right and left internal mammary artery grafts , using the mammary artery as a way of access . 
maximum flow ratios at mid-vital capacity in young healthy adults . upper airway obstruction is usually diagnosed by visual examination of maximum expiratory and inspiratory flow-volume curves and by calculating a ratio of expiratory to inspiratory flow at 50 percent of vital capacity ( mid-vital capacity flow ratio ) ; however , reference values of this ratio have not been well established , and considerable variability exists . the purpose of this study was to examine the range of mid-vital capacity flow ratios in a group of healthy subjects and to determine if some of the variability is accounted for by different maximum inspiratory pressures . we measured maximum expiratory and inspiratory flows at 50 percent of vital capacity from the flow-volume curves , and maximum inspiratory pressures in a group of 60 healthy nonsmokers ( 30 men and 30 women ) whose ages ranged from 21 to 40 years . we found that mid-vital capacity flow ratio ( mean + / - sd ) was 0.72 + / - 0.19 in men and 0.77 + / - 0.18 in women . the coefficient of variation of the mid-vital capacity flow ratio was 28 percent for men and 23 percent for women . the 95 percent confidence limits for the mid-vital capacity flow ratio were 0.65 to 0.79 for men and 0.70 to 0.84 for women . maximum inspiratory pressures ( mean + / - sd ) were 129 + / - 30 cm h2o in men and 91 + / - 16 cm h2o in women , not significantly different from previous studies . normalizing maximum inspiratory flow for maximum inspiratory pressure did not reduce the coefficient of variation , which became 29 percent in men and 30 percent in women . we conclude that the range of mid-vital capacity flow ratios is wide , and it cannot be reduced by standardizing it for maximum inspiratory pressures . 
conduction system in cases of sudden death in congenital heart disease many years after surgical correction . the conduction system and the entire heart were examined histologically in four patients with congenital heart disease who had surgery many years before they died suddenly . all were asymptomatic , in sinus rhythm and living normally . the sudden death may have been related to alterations in the conduction system , previously present , or introduced by the previous surgery , or related to inflammatory phenomena , an outgrowth of the previous surgery . 
an angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitor in human serum . increased sensitivity of the serum ace assay for detecting active sarcoidosis . measurement of serum angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) is extremely useful as an aid in the diagnosis and longitudinal evaluation of patients with sarcoidosis . we have detected a human serum ace-inhibitor which affects the ace level obtained by activity measurements . the effect of the inhibitor can be eliminated by a mere eight-fold dilution of the serum sample with physiologic saline . we recommend that serum ace be performed with 1 : 8 dilutions of serum to eliminate the effect of the ace inhibitor . the inhibitor has a mw above 50 , 000 daltons , and reversibility of inhibition by dilution appears to be ion dependent . dialysis of an inhibitor-containing serum sample against saline causes the inhibition to become irreversible , allowing the distinction between alinearity of the assay vs an inhibitor effect when a serum has ace activity greater than 50 units / ml . the source of the serum ace-inhibitor remains to be determined . 
coronary angioplasty is the treatment of choice for multivessel coronary artery disease . 
single-patient randomized clinical trial . opiates for intractable dyspnea . 
abnormal position of flow-directed right heart catheter . 
pulmonary edema induced by sepsis . 
dual left coronary systems . dual left coronary systems , one originating normally and the other anomalously from the right sinus of valsalva , is described in a 53-year-old patient with atypical chest pain with exercise-induced st-depression in the anteroseptal area ( v2-4 ) . clinical consequences of this hitherto undescribed anomaly are discussed . 
duplication of the inferior vena cava in thromboembolic disease . recurrent pulmonary embolism from the lower extremities or pelvis , despite anticoagulation , often requires interruption of the inferior vena cava ( ivc ) . we report two patients in whom interruption of the ivc failed to ameliorate symptoms . both patients demonstrated a previously unrecognized duplication of the ivc . we stress the importance of excluding abdominal venous anomalies prior to interrupting the ivc using surgical or percutaneous methods . 
pleurodesis in metastatic pneumothorax . a 57-year-old woman with bilateral pneumothoraces secondary to pulmonary metastases from leiomyosarcoma of the uterus was treated successfully by intrapleural instillation of tetracycline . 
spontaneous pneumothorax . a complication of lung cancer ? [ letter ] 
staging with ct [ letter ] 
tricuspid annuloplasty [ letter ] 
a new method of cardioversion [ letter ] 
intrasubject variability of theophylline clearance in a morbidly obese patient . it is well appreciated that theophylline pharmacokinetics exhibits wide intersubject variation . within-subject changes in clearance have been generally reported in patients with acute exacerbations of disease states such as cor pulmonale or heart failure . apparent random changes in theophylline clearance within the same patient have recently been reported . this report describes a case of suspected changes in the clearance of theophylline in a morbidly obese patient ( 250 kg ) over a two-month period of time . frequent dosage adjustments were required to maintain theophylline concentrations within the range of 8.2 to 27.3 micrograms / ml . possible explanations for these changes included hypoxia and medically induced starvation . daily theophylline doses ranged from 600 to 1600 mg / d . it is concluded that in some individuals , within-subject changes in theophylline clearance can be substantial , thus requiring frequent monitoring of theophylline concentration . 
suprofen-induced acute renal failure . a case report of acute flank pain with reversible renal failure in a young adult after taking three doses of suprofen is presented . blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine values returned to normal from significantly elevated levels on admission . 
cefamandole distribution in serum , adipose tissue , and wound drainage in morbidly obese patients . distribution and elimination of cefamandole 2 g iv were studied in 11 morbidly obese patients during a gastric bypass operation and again on the first postoperative day . serum , subcutaneous adipose tissue , wound drainage , and urine were analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography for cefamandole and pharmacokinetic parameters from the intraoperative period were compared to those obtained postoperatively . total body clearance was significantly greater ( p less than 0.001 ) postoperatively ( 297 ml / min ) than intraoperatively ( 254 ml / min ) . volume changes were unpredictable but the elimination rate constant tended to increase postoperatively . renal clearance and percentage of urinary recovery were significantly increased ( p less than 0.01 ) postoperatively . the patients had a mean ( + / - sd ) volume of the central compartment of 10.3 ( + / - 2.3 ) l , volume at steady state of 18.3 ( + / - 3.9 ) l , and elimination rate constant of 1.67 ( + / - 0.63 ) h-1 . tissue concentrations of cefamandole were highest during the first hour after drug administration and were less than 1 microgram / g after 3.5 hours . mean wound drainage concentrations ranged between 10 and 12 micrograms / ml during a dosing interval and dropped to 7 micrograms / ml 12 hours after the last dose . intraoperative dosing of cefamandole is required to maintain subcutaneous adipose tissue concentrations greater than 1 microgram / g during procedures longer than three hours in morbidly obese patients . a postoperative dose of cefamandole 2 g iv q6h will provide sustained and therapeutic concentrations in the wound drainage of morbidly obese patients . 
effect of molindone on weight change in hospitalized schizophrenic patients . a retrospective review was conducted to assess the effect of molindone on weight . monthly weights and neuroleptic dosages during the first three months of psychiatric hospitalization were compared between matched groups of patients receiving molindone , a combination of molindone and other neuroleptics , or other neuroleptic drugs . we found no significant differences in weight gain among the three groups . our results challenge the common opinion that molindone can be associated with a lack of weight gain compared to other antipsychotics . 
survey of the professional interrelations between dermatologist and pharmacist . a national survey of dermatologists and pharmacists was conducted to characterize the involvement of the community pharmacist in the area of skin diseases and to elicit suggestions to improve professional interrelations . the results show the dermatologists ' major complaint is pharmacists ' inability or unwillingness to compound prescriptions . the study clearly indicates the need for increased communication between the two professions in matters such as inventory control , prescription refill procedures , and substitution guidelines . the pharmacists , in general , admitted a deficiency in their educational preparedness to recognize common skin disorders , thus limiting their ability to assess the severity of patients ' complaints . 
drugs do n't have doses--people have doses ! a clinical educator 's philosophy [ editorial ] 
controlling the metamorphosis of pharmacy [ editorial ] 
clinical pharmacy--specialty or general direction ? [ editorial ] 
do basic scientists fiddle while the clinical faculty burns ? [ editorial ] 
heparin and aminoglycosides instability [ letter ] 
imipramine treatment failures : defective generic products or inadequate doses ? [ letter ] 
phenytoin treatment of rdeb vegetans [ letter ] 
massive diltiazem overdosage : clinical and pharmacokinetic observations [ letter ] 
hepatitis associated with danazol [ letter ] 
comment : predicting phenytoin levels [ letter ] 
comment : pharmacy manpower contrast--u.k . [ letter ] 
emergency department management of critical illness . 
ovarian function in ewes treated with antihistamines . ewes were treated systemically during the periovulatory period with the antihistamines diphenhydramine ( h1-receptor antagonist ) and ( or ) cimetidine ( h2-receptor antagonist ) . none of the treatments prevented ovulation . however , the combination of drugs inhibited subsequent function of the corpus luteum ( cl ) as assessed by serum measurements of progesterone . administration of antihistamines did not alter pituitary secretion of lh . injection of small quantities of diphenhydramine and cimetidine into the antrum of the preovulatory follicle also caused aberrant luteal activity , but no blockade of ovulation . intrafollicular injection of histamine reversed the inhibitory influence of antihistamines on the cl . antihistamines suppressed preovulatory thecal edema and antral influx of plasma transudate containing lh . thus , the effects of antihistamines appear to have been exerted at the follicular level . function of matured cl was not compromised by peripheral administration of antihistamines . actions of histamine within the preovulatory ovine follicle do not appear to be a prerequisite for ovulation , but apparently do have an impact on ensuing luteal function . we propose that a hyperemic reaction to histamine in preovulatory follicles enhances vascular filtration of lh . as a consequence , maximal permeation of the avascular granulosal layer of the follicle by lh leads to a normal luteinization response . 
immunoglobulin and secretory component regulation in the rat uterus at the time of decidualization . to determine the effect of decidualization on uterine immunoglobulins ( igs ) , we measured the levels of igg , iga , and secretory component ( sc ) after induction of artificial decidual cell reactions ( dcr ) in hormonally primed ovariectomized rats . when progesterone-treated ( 2.5 mg / day , 3 days ) rats received an intraluminal instillation of oil or a needle scratch stimulation in one uterine horn , the stimulated horn had an increase in wet weight and cytoplasmic protein relative to the contralateral horn . under these conditions , igg levels increased 10-fold in the lumen of the stimulated horn . this response was selective for igg , because induction of dcr had no effect on accumulation of iga or sc in the stimulated horn . the progesterone-induced accumulation of igg after dcr was further enhanced by estradiol . the addition of a small amount of estradiol ( 0.2 microgram ) on day 3 of a 4-day progesterone pretreatment resulted in further increases in both the wet weight of the stimulated horn and the concentration of igg in the lumen . the amount of igg in the lumen of the stimulated horn was 5-fold greater than that in the stimulated horn after progesterone alone . levels of iga and sc , however , remained unchanged with this treatment . these results indicate that movement of igg into the uterine lumen occurs as a part of the dcr and that both an appropriate endocrine balance and physical stimulation are essential for maximal igg accumulation . further , they suggest that igg may play a central role in early pregnancy , which results in the successful implantation of the blastocysts . 
modulation of the chloride concentration of human sweat by prolactin . the purpose of this study was to determine whether the availability of prl modulates the chloride concentration of human sweat . full thickness human skin grafted into the back of immunoincompetent , nude , congenitally athymic mice heals in about 6 to 10 weeks and survives the life of the mice . mice have no sweat glands in the back so this system provides a useful model for study of the physiology and pathology of human sweat glands . the graft can be induced to sweat and the sweat collected for analytical studies . presumably normal skin obtained from 7 individuals undergoing reconstructive surgery was grafted successfully into 11 mice . on 49 occasions sweat was induced by pilocarpine iontophoresis and collected for 45 min . the chloride concentration was 12.9 + / - 6.7 meq / liter , values typical of normal human sweat . nine mice bearing grafts were injected with rabbit anti-human prl ( hprl ) . the chloride concentration of sweat obtained a day later was significantly elevated . the concentration generally increased after a second and sometimes a third injection of anti-prl . the average maximum sweat chloride obtained was 61.9 + / - 8.25 meq / liter . serum of rabbits that had not been exposed to hprl was prepared and diluted in the same way as the anti-hprl . the chloride concentration of sweat of 3 mice that received the preparation for several days remained unchanged at the low normal level . we conclude that depletion of prl increases the concentration of chloride in human sweat . 
the related genes encoding growth hormone and prolactin have been dispersed to chromosomes 10 and 17 in the rat . we have assigned the rat gh gene to chromosome 10 and the rat prl gene to chromosome 17. dna from a series of mouse bwtg3 x rat hepatocyte somatic cell hybrids , each of which has retained a unique complement of rat chromosomes , was analyzed for the presence of rat gh and prl genomic fragments by southern blotting . radiolabeled complementary dnas ( cdnas ) encoding rat gh and rat prl were used as molecular probes . based upon these assignments , we conclude that the evolutionarily related gh and prl genes have been dispersed to different chromosomes in rat as in man . 
immunocytochemical localization of estrogen receptors in the macaque endometrium during the luteal-follicular transition . we examined changes in estrogen receptors ( ers ) in endometrial stromal and epithelial cells in cynomolgus macaques during artificially induced menstruation and repair . we used silastic implants filled with either estradiol ( e2 ) or progesterone ( p ) to treat spayed animals for 14 days with e2 followed by 14 days of e2 plus p . we then withdrew the p ( but not the e2 ) implants and removed uteri 0 , 0.5 , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 7 , and 14 days later . uterine tissues were assayed biochemically for er content , fixed for histology and frozen for immunocytochemistry of er with monoclonal antiestrophilins . on day 0 , er levels in endometrium were low [ 1330 + / - 201 ( n = 9 ) fmol / mg dna ] . an increase in total receptor was evident by 3-4 days of p withdrawal 2762 + / - 190 ( n = 6 ) fmol / mg dna ; p less than 0.001 ] . total receptor concentrations increased linearly with time from 0.5-7 days of p withdrawal ( r = 0.88 ) . on day 0 , staining for nuclear er in the glandular epithelium and stroma of zones i , ii , and iii of the endometrium was negative . beginning at 12-24 h and continuing through 4 days of p withdrawal , nuclear staining became detectable and increased in intensity only in endometrial stromal fibroblasts and myometrial smooth muscle cells . the glandular epithelium of the endometrium did not develop nuclear staining until 5-7 days of p withdrawal , coincident with a 10-fold increase in the mitotic index of the epithelium of the upper zones . thus , the increase in endometrial er levels that occurred during the first 5 days of an induced luteal-follicular transition took place almost exclusively in stromal fibroblasts . 
in vivo effects of transcriptional and translational inhibitors on duodenal vitamin d-dependent calcium-binding protein messenger ribonucleic acid stimulation by 1 , 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol . the in vivo stimulation of vitamin d-dependent calcium-binding protein ( 9 k cabp ) synthesis by 1 , 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol [ 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 ] in the rat duodenum has been analyzed using a specific [ 32p ] complementary dna probe for rat 9 k cabp and inhibitors of rna transcription ( actinomycin d , alpha-amanitin ) or protein synthesis ( cycloheximide ) . the relative amounts of 9 k cabp messenger rna ( mrna ) were assayed by dot-blot hybridization and the relative amounts of 9 k cabp by ria . both inhibitors were injected at doses which significantly inhibited by 80-95 % [ 35s ] methionine or [ 3h ] uridine incorporation into protein and rna , respectively . in vitamin d-deficient rats , a single 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 injection ( 650 pmol / 100 g bw ) resulted in a rapid production of 9 k cabp mrna which was significantly detectable as early as 3 h , and was followed by an increase of 9 k cabp levels . injection of actinomycin d ( 25 micrograms / 100 g bw ) 1 h before 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 treatment and repeated every 4 h did not prevent the hormone-induced elevation of duodenal cabp mrna , even when the actinomycin dose was doubled and given 2 h before hormonal treatment . alpha-amanitin ( 2 micrograms / 100 g bw ) also failed to block the hormonal stimulation . the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide ( 25 micrograms / 100 g bw ) did not cause any change in the 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3-induced cabp mrna but blocked the cabp increase after hormone injection . thus , transcription inhibitors did not prevent the in vivo hormone-induced elevation of 9 k cabp mrna , which suggests that 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 increases 9 k cabp synthesis by increasing 9 k cabp gene expression at one or more posttranscriptional steps . more precise data will be obtained by measuring the rate of 9 k cabp gene transcription on isolated nuclei from rat duodenum . 
direct effect of estradiol on the number of dopamine receptors in the anterior pituitary of ovariectomized rats . the effect of 17 beta-estradiol ( 17 beta e2 ) on anterior pituitary dopaminergic receptor ( d2 ) content was studied in vitro in relation to prl secretion . anterior pituitaries from ovariectomized rats were incubated for short periods in medium 199 , with or without the steroid . dopamine ( da ) receptors in partially purified pituitary membranes were quantified by equilibrium binding using [ 3h ] spiperone ; the prl released into the incubation medium was analyzed by ria . addition of 10 ( -10 ) to 10 ( -6 ) m 17 beta e2 to the incubation medium of anterior pituitaries rapidly and reversibly decreased the number of da receptors ( p less than 0.01 to 0.001 ) , while increasing prl release , in a dose-related fashion . the maximal effect on both receptor numbers and prl secretion was obtained with 10 ( -8 ) m 17 beta e2 . this effect involved no change in receptor affinity ( kd = 0.11 + / - 0.01 nm in presence or in absence of 17 beta e2 ) . this estrogen-induced decrease in da-binding capacity was apparently not the result of the occupation of spiperone binding sites by the steroid , since after a 30-min incubation with 10 ( -8 ) m [ 3h ] 17 beta e2 , no radioactivity was detectable on the partially purified membranes . moreover , the presence of 17 beta e2 at the same time as the labeled d2 ligand did not modify the kinetics of association or dissociation of spiperone with pituitary membranes . this decrease in anterior pituitary da receptor content and the increase in prl release were already significant after a 7-min incubation in the presence of 10 ( -8 ) m 17 beta e2 . finally , these effects of 17 beta e2 were not mimicked by its 17 alpha-stereoisomer , nor by progesterone , or testosterone . these results suggest that the stimulatory effect of 17 beta e2 on prl secretion may be due , at least in part , to the desensitization of anterior pituitary cells to da . the steroid may produce this desensitization directly by decreasing the number of d2 . the short latency of this effect likely discards the possibility of a genomic action of 17 beta e2 . 
dibutyryl adenosine cyclic monophosphate regulates differentiation of type a spermatogonia with vitamin a in adult mouse cryptorchid testis in vitro . surgically prepared cryptorchid mouse testes containing only type a spermatogonia were cultured with ( bu ) 2camp in combination with vitamin a ( retinol ) . treatment with ( bu ) 2camp and retinol for 12-24 h and with basal medium for an additional 8 days stimulated mitotic activity in type a spermatogonia and induced differentiation of germ cells . however , ( bu ) 2camp alone did not induce differentiation of type a spermatogonia . moreover , when cryptorchid testes were treated with ( bu ) 2camp for longer than 3 days in the presence or absence of retinol , differentiation of type a spermatogonia did not take place ; disintegration of the seminiferous tubules occurred instead . when the cryptorchid testes were cultured for 24 h in a medium containing a fixed concentration of retinol and varying concentrations of ( bu ) 2camp from 0.001-0.4 mm , there was a dose-dependent increase in the number of differentiated and mitotic germ cells and type a spermatogonia . likewise , at a fixed dose of ( bu ) 2camp and increasing concentrations of retinol , a dose-dependent increase in the number of differentiated and mitotic germ cells occurred . however , the number of type a spermatogonia was decreased . the addition of puromycin , cycloheximide , and actinomycin d to the medium completely blocked retinol- ( bu ) 2camp-induced differentiation of the germ cells . the present results suggest that camp and retinol trigger biochemical events promoting the synthesis of specific macromolecules involved in the proliferation and differentiation of type a spermatogonia . 
hypothalamic vasoactive intestinal peptide messenger ribonucleic acid is increased in lactating rats . vasoactive intestinal peptide ( vip ) has been proposed as an inducer of prl release . moreover , immunocytochemical studies suggested an increase in the vip content in the hypothalamus of lactating rats . we investigated whether this increase is regulated at the level of gene transcription . a sensitive rna detection assay that uses in vitro transcribed rna probes corresponding to specific exons of the vip gene was devised to study vip gene expression . using this method , an approximately 2000-base long rna containing the coding sequences for vip was detected in rat hypothalamus . this rna also contains the coding sequences for the vip-related peptide phm / i ( peptide histidine methionine amide or isoleucine amide ) . an identical vip-encoding rna was previously identified in the rat cerebral cortex . a 2-fold increase was observed in hypothalamic vip mrna during lactation . in addition , the levels of this mrna increased in the hypothalamus at the time of sexual maturation . taken together , our results suggest a physiological regulation of vip gene expression associated with its potential role as a neuroendocrine hormone . 
autoregulation of iodide transport in the rabbit : absence of autoregulation in fetal tissue and comparison of maternal and fetal thyroid iodination products . maternal and fetal rabbit thyroid glands were compared as to their ability to respond to excess iodide in vitro with a reduction in subsequent iodide transport activity . preincubation of maternal thyroid tissue slices for 2 h with excess iodide ( 30 microm ) resulted in a 31 % reduction in the subsequently measured thyroid-medium radioiodide concentration ratio . in contrast , similar iodide pretreatment had no significant effect on fetal iodide transport . in all other respects , fetal iodide transport , although it was 10 times higher , did not differ significantly from maternal transport activity . combined radiolabeled maternal ( 125i ) and fetal ( 131i ) rabbit thyroid tissue was eluted on sephadex g-25 columns . fractions were analyzed for both 125i and 131i activity , and the maternal to fetal ratios ( 125i / 131i ) were determined for each fraction . the majority of iodoproteins eluted with the void volume , and the 125i / 131i ratio was constant in these fractions . thereafter , two peaks of elevated 125i / 131i activity could be observed . peak a eluted below lysozyme ( mr = 14 , 300 ) and above insulin ( mr = 6 , 000 ) , with an apparent mol wt of 8 , 000 to 10 , 000. a second peak , peak b , eluted from the column at a site similar to that of mit or a protein of mr of 2 , 000. ascending paper chromatography of this latter peak of 125i / 131i activity and mit was carried out in two solvent systems . in both systems , peak b comigrated with mit . these findings suggest that the failure of fetal thyroid tissue to exhibit autoregulation may be associated with the reduced iodination of a compound with an approximate mr of 8 , 000 to 10 , 000. the role of this substance in iodide transport remains to be identified . the reason for the apparent increase in the labeling of mit observed in maternal vs . fetal tissue is unknown . 
autoregulation of thyroid iodide transport : evidence for the mediation of protein synthesis in iodide-induced suppression of iodide transport . the role of protein synthesis in iodide-induced suppression of subsequent iodide transport ( iodide autoregulation ) was studied in cat thyroid slices . thyroid slices were pretreated for 60-120 min in the presence or absence of either excess ( 30 microm ) sodium iodide , inhibitors of protein synthesis , or both . tissue was then washed in the presence of 2 mm methimazole to prevent subsequent iodination reaction and remove excess iodide . iodide transport activity was finally evaluated by measurement of the ratio of tissue to medium iodide concentrations in 90-min incubations . addition of 0.1 mm cycloheximide during the preexposure of thyroid tissue to excess iodide had no effect on either control levels of iodide transport or iodide-induced autoregulation . however , if thyroid tissue was treated with cycloheximide alone for 1 h before preexposure to excess iodide , there was a significant reduction in the degree of iodide-induced induced autoregulation . similar results were obtained with pretreatment of the tissue with 0.5 mm puromycin and 1 microgram / ml emetine . these findings suggest that protein synthesis is involved in the mechanism of thyroid autoregulation of iodide transport . cycloheximide had no effect on the ability of excess iodide to reduce tsh-stimulated camp formation . two-dimensional gel electrophoresis-isoelectric focusing and sephadex g-25 column chromatography employing dual-isotope comparison of iodoprotein labeling of control and cycloheximide-treated tissue suggest that the ability of cycloheximide to suppress iodide-induced autoregulation is associated with the reduced iodination of an 8- to 10-kilodalton soluble component of the thyroid gland . 
stimulation by 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 of adenylate cyclase along the villus of chick duodenum . administration of 650 pmol 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 [ 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 ] to vitamin d-deficient chicks increased adenylate cyclase activity in the basolateral membrane of duodenal epithelial cells within 24 h . this increase in enzymatic activity was accompanied by an increase in calmodulin content of the basolateral membrane . although neither exogenously added calmodulin ( up to 10 micrograms / ml ) nor calcium ( from 10 ( -7 ) -10 ( -5 ) m ) stimulated enzyme activity , calmodulin antagonists trifluoperazine , w7 , and w13 inhibited it . when calmodulin content , adenylate cyclase activity , and alkaline phosphatase activity were measured in cells sequentially eluted from the tip to the base of the villus , cells from the midregion and base had the highest calmodulin content and adenylate cyclase activity , whereas alkaline phosphatase activity ( a brush border membrane enzyme ) was highest in cells eluted from the tip . adenylate cyclase activity was increased by 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 , particularly in cells from the midvillus . our results indicate that the response of adenylate cyclase activity to 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 varies along the villus and suggest that calmodulin may be involved . 
chronic administration of 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 : increased bone but impaired mineralization . male sprague-dawley rats were infused continuously for 13 days with vehicle or 75 pmol ( 31.2 ng ) / day 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 [ 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 ] by means of alzet osmotic minipumps implanted s.c. animals infused with 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 exhibited mild hypercalcemia ( 11.2 vs . 10.2 mg / dl in controls ) , a 136 % increase in the serum concentration of 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 ( 187 vs . 79 pg / ml ) , and a 59 % decrease in serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d ( 12 vs . 29 ng / ml ) . the proximal tibial metaphysis of these animals was characterized by increased trabecular bone volume ( 15 % vs . 6.5 % ) , osteoid accumulation ( 4.2 % vs . 0.1 % ) , increased osteoblast surface and number ( 31 % and 19 / mm vs . 21 % and 14 / mm , respectively ) , and decreased osteoclast surface and number ( 11 % and 2 / mm vs . 36 % and 6 / mm , respectively ) . similar but less striking changes were seen in the lumbar vertebra . increases in the fat-free weight and calcium content of the tibia and lumbar vertebra were consistent with the increase in trabecular bone volume after 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 infusion . however , tetracycline labeling and the incorporation of 45ca in these bones were reduced by 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 infusion . in addition , mineralization lag time was prolonged in the lumbar vertebrae of 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3-infused rats . our findings indicate that chronic 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 administration increases bone mass , but at the cost of impaired bone mineralization . 
glucocorticoid-induced messenger ribonucleic acids in rat thymic lymphocytes : rapid primary effects specific for glucocorticoids . we examined the mechanism underlying the rapid ( 15-120 min ) glucocorticoid-mediated increase in the synthesis of proteins envisioned as mediators of the initial steroid effects in thymic lymphocytes . analysis of about 1500 in vitro translation products on giant two-dimensional gels revealed rapid hormonal influences on only 7 mrnas , 6 whose translation products have mol wt and pis identical to those proteins whose synthesis has been found to be increased after the addition of glucocorticoids to thymus cells . the additional mrna codes for glucocortin , whose induction in thymus as well as other target cells has been reported . mrna inductions for proteins 1 , 2 , and 1n are detectable 15-30 min after the addition of dexamethasone to isolated thymus cells and continue to increase until 2 h , whereas the mrnas for proteins 4 and 5 are not increased until after 1 h . the mrna for protein 3 is elevated by 1 h , but attempts to quantitate the change at earlier times have failed because this protein focuses poorly . the parallel between these in vitro translation results and the increased synthesis of individual proteins seen in whole cells demonstrates that increased mrna levels underlie the cellular changes . other hormones , such as estradiol , testosterone , and t3 , at 10 ( -6 ) m and deoxycorticosterone at 10 ( -8 ) m do not induce these messages . partial inductions of 1 and 2 , but not 1n , are seen with deoxycorticosterone at 10 ( -6 ) m , consistent with its classification as a partial glucocorticoid agonist . cycloheximide does not block the rise in mrna for the most rapid inductions , 1 , 2 , and 1n . the results indicate that dexamethasone rapidly and specifically induces 6 thymus cell mrnas in addition to the one coding for glucocortin . the cycloheximide results suggest that at least 3 of these represent primary steroid hormone responses . 
detection of vasoactive intestinal peptide-encoding messenger ribonucleic acid in the rat ovaries . vasoactive intestinal peptide ( vip ) has recently been detected in rat ovaries and has been shown to stimulate steroidogenesis by cultured rat granulosa cells . in this study we investigated whether the vip-messenger rna ( mrna ) can be detected in the ovaries , thus suggesting local synthesis of the peptide . to study vip-gene expression , a sensitive rna detection assay which uses in vitro transcribed rna probes corresponding to specific exons of the vip gene was developed . using this method , an approximately 2000-base rna band containing the coding sequences for vip was detected in rat ovaries . this rna also contains the coding sequences for the vip-related peptide ( peptide-histidine-methionine ) . an identical vip-encoding rna was previously identified in the rat cerebral cortex . however , the vip-mrna quantity in the cortex was 12-fold-higher as compared to the ovaries . these results may reflect the differences in vip concentration in the two organs . the finding of vip-encoding mrna in the rat ovaries suggests a local synthesis of vip in the ovaries . 
estradiol activates methylating enzyme ( s ) involved in the conversion of phosphatidylethanolamine to phosphatidylcholine in rat pituitary membranes . 17 beta-estradiol ( e2 ) affects the sensitivity of pituitary cells to several neurohormones as lhrh , trh , or dopamine , presumably by modulating receptor coupling mechanisms . we attempted to pinpoint the membrane processes underlying this modulation and studied the effect of e2 on pituitary membrane phospholipid methylation . anterior pituitary membranes prepared from ovariectomized ( ovx ) or ovx plus e2-treated rats were assayed for phospholipid methylation . methylated phospholipids were separated by tlc . incorporation of [ 3h ] methyl groups into phospholipids increased with membrane concentration and incubation time with s-adenosyl-l-methyl [ 3h ] methionine ; it was not mg2+ dependent and was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by s-adenosyl-l-homocysteine , methyltransferase inhibitor . ph was found to be critical . formation of phosphatidyl-monoethanolamine , phosphatidyl-dimethylethanolamine , and phosphatidylcholine was markedly stimulated by treatment with e2 . the effect increased progressively when animals were killed 15 h to 5 days after e2 implantation . the response involved a shift in the maximum velocity ( vmax ) although there was no change in the available substrate for the methylating enzyme . this change in vmax probably reflects changes in the amount of the methylating enzyme itself . administration of 17 alpha-estradiol , an inactive stereoisomer of e2 was ineffective , pointing to a stereospecific interaction . after differential centrifugation of pituitary membranes , the highest specific methyltransferase activity was found in light mitochondrial ( l ) and microsomal ( p ) fractions and the lowest in nuclei ( n ) and the heavy mitochondrial ( m ) fractions . after sucrose density gradient centrifugation , methylated phospholipids were preferentially recovered from fractions corresponding to the endoplasmic reticulum and / or secretory granules . e2 treatment for 5 days did not modify the subcellular distribution of methyltransferase activity but stimulated it in all fractions ; in contrast , it did not modify the activity of the other enzymes measured as fraction markers . under the same experimental conditions , phospholipid methylation in membranes prepared from cortex , and anterior and mediobasal hypothalamic structures was not affected by the steroid , with the exception of a slight increment of [ 3h ] methyl incorporation into mediobasal hypothalamic membrane phospholipids after 5 days of e2 treatment . these results indicate that e2-induced changes in pituitary responsiveness might be concomitant with selective effects of the steroid on specific membrane enzymatic activities involved in coupling mechanisms . 
inhibition of binding of ovine placental lactogen to growth hormone and prolactin receptors by monoclonal antibodies . from a single cell fusion , five stable hybridomas secreting antiovine placental lactogen ( opl ) antibodies were obtained . three of these secrete immunoglobulin ( ig ) g subclass , and the other two secrete igm class antibodies . ascites fluids were raised in mice for each clone and were used as the antibody component for the development of solid phase ria . three solid-phase rias were successfully established using individual igg subclass monoclonal antibodies , but the igm class antibodies were ineffective . in all three individual solid-phase rias , the binding of [ 125i ] iodo-opl to the immobilized antibody was inhibited by unlabeled opl , but not by ovine pituitary prl ( oprl ) , ovine gh ( ogh ) , or ovine pituitary extract . two of the igg subclass antibodies were able to inhibit the binding of [ 125i ] iodo-opl to prl receptors ( s ) and to gh receptor ( s ) in rabbit mammary gland and liver , respectively . one of these two igg subclass antibodies was more effective at inhibiting the binding of opl to prl receptor ( s ) in rabbit mammary gland , whereas the other one is more effective in inhibiting the binding of opl to gh receptor ( s ) in rabbit liver . these antibodies , however , could only weakly inhibit the binding of [ 125i ] iodo-oprl to rabbit mammary gland and were ineffective in inhibiting the binding of [ 125i ] iodo-ogh to rabbit liver . the addition of monoclonal antibodies in both radioreceptor assay ( rra ) for prl ( rra-prl ) and for gh ( rra-gh ) did not affect the parallelism of the displacement curve of opl standard . our results suggest that opl might contain two distinct binding sequence ( s ) : one responsible for the binding of opl to prl receptor ( s ) and the other responsible for the binding of opl to gh receptor ( s ) . these two binding sequences might overlap or be located adjacent to one another . the interaction of monoclonal antibodies with these binding sequences of opl may block the binding of opl with prl and gh receptor ( s ) . alternatively , our studies suggest that the monoclonal antibodies do not bind to hormone receptor ( s ) -binding sequence ( s ) in opl , but the interaction between opl and monoclonal antibody might alter the conformational structure of the opl which will consequently lead to a lower binding of opl to prl and gh receptor ( s ) . 
calmodulin mediates the stimulatory effect of 3 , 5 , 3'-triiodothyronine on adenylate cyclase activity in rat thymocyte plasma membranes . we have previously demonstrated that t3 increases adenylate cyclase activity in rat thymocyte plasma membranes by a mechanism that is calcium dependent . in the present studies we have examined whether calmodulin participates in this response to t3 . initial experiments provided evidence that calmodulin is involved in regulating the activity of the guanyl nucleotide-dependent adenylate cyclase in this tissue . thus , compared with findings in freshly prepared membranes , dialysis of thymocyte plasma membrane preparations for 20 h at 4 c decreased their calmodulin concentrations from an initial value of approximately 600 ng / 100 micrograms protein by about 50 % and decreased adenylate cyclase activity by approximately 80 % . although storage of the same preparations under comparable conditions resulted in no change in calmodulin content , it caused an approximate 30 % decrease in adenylate cyclase activity . addition of calmodulin had no effect on adenylate cyclase activity in fresh or stored membrane preparations , but produced a dose-dependent increase in enzyme activity in preparations that had been dialyzed . further , when added to freshly isolated membranes , three calmodulin antagonists , trifluoperazine , calmidazolium , and calmodulin antibodies , all produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity , and this was completely reversed in all cases by the addition of high concentrations of exogenous calmodulin . the stimulation of guanyl nucleotide-dependent adenylate cyclase activity that t3 induced in fresh membrane preparations was present in membranes that had been stored , but was absent in those that had been dialyzed . in addition , the response to t3 in fresh membranes was inhibited or abolished by all three calmodulin antagonists . both in dialyzed membranes and in the presence of antagonists , the response to t3 was restored by the addition of exogenous calmodulin . we conclude that calmodulin influences the activity of the guanyl nucleotide-dependent adenylate cyclase in rat thymocytes and ultimately mediates the stimulation of enzyme activity that t3 produces . such mediation very likely explains the calcium-dependent nature of the stimulatory effect of t3 on thymocyte adenylate cyclase activity . 
osteoblastic insufficiency is responsible for maintenance of osteopenia after loss of ovarian function in experimental beagle dogs . bone loss developing after cessation of ovarian function in humans represents a major health problem . to establish the value of ovariohysterectomy in female beagle dogs as a model for bone loss and to study static and dynamic parameters of bone associated with the negative bone balance occurring after cessation of ovarian function , we performed iliac crest bone biopsies before and 4 months after ovariohysterectomy in eight beagle dogs and in five sham-operated controls . cessation of ovarian function was documented by an increase in serum levels of lh 4 weeks after ovariohysterectomy . there was no change in serum calcium , phosphorus , and creatinine during the 4 months of the study . cancellous bone mass and trabecular mean wall thickness decreased significantly after ovariohysterectomy ( p less than 0.01 ) . in addition , the number of osteoblasts was increased and the bone formation rate per osteoblast , that is , the activity of bone-forming cells , was decreased ( p less than 0.01 ) . parameters of bone resorption were not significantly altered in the animals with ovariohysterectomy . no changes in histomorphometric parameters of bone structure , formation or resorption were observed in the sham-operated controls . these data indicate that ovariohysterectomy in beagle dogs may serve as a useful model for bone loss associated with cessation of ovarian function . osteoblastic insufficiency appears to play a major role in the maintenance of bone loss occurring after ovariohysterectomy in beagle dogs . 
growth hormone-secretory patterns in androgen-resistant ( testicular feminized ) rats . to investigate the role of androgen receptors in the expression of the male gh-secretory pattern in adult rats , the gh-secretory patterns in androgen-resistant ( testicular feminized ) rats were compared with their normal male and female littermates . all animals were prepared with intraatrial silastic catheters and bled every 15 min for 8 h ( 0800-1600 h ) . normal male littermates displayed a characteristic low frequency , high amplitude pattern of gh secretion with bursts of gh occurring every 2.5-3 h and separated by prolonged trough periods where gh values remained low or undetectable ( less than 5 ng / ml ) for 45-90 min . normal female littermates showed a characteristic high frequency , low amplitude pattern of gh secretion with pulses of gh occurring every hour . compared to normal male littermates , females had lower individual gh peak amplitudes and shortened gh-trough periods which contain higher gh levels . gh-secretory profiles displayed by testicular-feminized animals qualitatively and quantitatively resembled those of the normal female littermates . these data suggest that androgen receptors are necessary for the expression of masculine gh-secretory patterns . 
antiestrogen action in the medial basal hypothalamus and pituitary of immature female rats : insights concerning relationships among estrogen , dopamine , and prolactin . we have examined the effects of nonsteroidal antiestrogens ( aes ) and estradiol ( e ) on dopamine ( da ) levels and turnover rates in the medial basal hypothalamus ( mbh ) and on serum and pituitary prl to gain insight into da-prl-e / ae interrelationships . in 21-day-old female rats , e was found to increase mbh da levels and turnover and serum prl concentrations in a time- and concentration-dependent manner . changes were observed by 1 day , and after 3 days of e treatment ( 1 microgram / day ) , mbh da levels increased 2-fold ( to 1300 pg / mg tissue ) , and da turnover rates increased 5-fold ( to 1170 pg / mg tissue . h ) . the aes tamoxifen , monohydroxytamoxifen , ci628 , and ly117018 ( 50 micrograms / day for 3 days ) weakly stimulated uterine weight gain and significantly suppressed the uterotropic action of e . the aes ly117018 , monohydroxytamoxifen , ci628 , and tamoxifen competed with e for binding to the mbh estrogen receptor and displayed relative binding affinities of 190 % , 185 % , 6.7 % , and 1.4 % , with e set at 100 % ; these affinities are similar to those found for uterine estrogen receptors . the aes increased da turnover rates only 2-fold , and they antagonized the e-induced 5-fold increase in da turnover rates very successfully . in animals treated with bromocriptine , e and ae failed to increase the low serum prl levels , yet they evoked significant ( approximately 2-fold ) increases in da turnover rates and nearly 2-fold increases in mbh da content . hence , a part of the actions of e and ae on mbh da appears to be exerted independently of changes in circulating prl and may occur by direct action of these compounds on the estrogen receptor system present in the mbh . in addition , these studies reveal that aes behave as partial estrogen agonists / antagonists in terms of their effects on mbh da turnover . 
differences in the metabolic clearance of pituitary and serum thyrotropin ( tsh ) derived from euthyroid and hypothyroid rats : effects of chemical deglycosylation of pituitary tsh . we compared the mcr , volume of distribution , and rapid phase ( rt1 / 2 ) and slow phase half-lives of purified pituitary rat ( r ) tsh , tsh from crude pituitary extracts of normal and hypothyroid rats , tsh from hypothyroid rat sera , and tsh secreted from hypothyroid rat pituitaries incubated in vitro . for 3 h after iv bolus injection into euthyroid rats , 125i-labeled rtsh was determined by acid precipitation in serum and various organs , and unlabeled tsh was measured by ria . the mcr of tsh from normal pituitary extracts ( 0.53 + / - 0.02 ml / min ) was similar to that of unlabeled purified rtsh ( 0.52 + / - 0.03 ) , while those from hypothyroid pituitary extracts ( 0.32 + / - 0.03 ) and hypothyroid sera ( 0.33 + / - 0.01 ) were decreased . the reduced mcr of tsh from hypothyroid pituitaries was due to a decreased distribution volume ( 8.4 + / - 0.6 ml ) compared to that from normal pituitaries ( 11.4 + / - 0.7 ) and hypothyroid sera ( 10.9 + / - 0.8 ) . the decreased mcr of circulating tsh from hypothyroid sera reflected an increase in its rt1 / 2 ( 12.6 + / - 0.5 min ) vs . that from both normal ( 5.1 + / - 0.5 ) and hypothyroid ( 5.7 + / - 0.4 ) pituitaries . the rt1 / 2 of secreted tsh from incubated hypothyroid rat pituitaries ( 8.5 + / - 0.9 ) was intermediate between those of circulating and pituitary forms of hypothyroid rtsh . the clearances of intact bovine tsh ( btsh ) and deglycosylated btsh ( dg-btsh ) were compared . the dg-btsh mcr was found to be increased ( 0.71 + / - 0.02 ml / min ) compared to that of btsh ( 0.59 + / - 0.02 ) , primarily due to a decreased rt1 / 2 for dg-btsh ( 3.8 + / - 0.1 min ) vs . btsh ( 4.7 + / - 0.2 ) . uptake of purified [ 125i ] rtsh was highest in the kidney at all times , varying from 43 % of the injected dose at 5 min to 54 % at 180 min . we conclude that in the euthyroid rat , 1 ) the metabolic clearance of tsh differs between pituitary and serum forms and appears to depend on specific molecular features that vary with the physiological state of the animal from which the tsh is derived ; 2 ) since chemical deglycosylation increased the clearance of tsh , we speculate that the chemical basis for changes in tsh clearance may be related to alterations in its carbohydrate structure ; and 3 ) for normal pituitary tsh , the kidney is the major organ of clearance . 
intracranial sites regulating the biphasic action of progesterone in estrogen-primed golden hamsters . diencephalic and mesencephalic neural sites regulating the biphasic effect of progesterone ( p ) were investigated using the hormone implantation technique in ovariectomized female golden hamsters primed with estrogen . double barreled cannulae were implanted unilaterally and bilaterally in the medial preoptic area , anterior hypothalamus , ventromedial hypothalamus ( vmh ) , central gray , or interpeduncular nucleus . testing was conducted using a sequential paradigm ; facilitation tests commenced after 44 h of estrogen priming . p-filled cannulae placed in the vmh region facilitated lordosis behavior in 42 % and 60 % of unilaterally and bilaterally implanted females , respectively . in the anterior hypothalamus , only p implants adjacent to the vmh area effectively promoted receptivity . lordosis behavior was also observed in 20-36 % of females with p implants in the medial preoptic area . p implants in central gray and interpeduncular nucleus regions had no significant facilitating effect on sexual behavior . tests for inhibition occurred 24 h after facilitation testing and consisted of a pretest , followed by systemic p administration and a behavioral test 4-5 h later . during the pretest for inhibition , females that were receptive in the facilitation test attacked males more rapidly than previously nonreceptive animals and showed decrements in lordosis scores after systemic p delivery . this biphasic effect of p completely inhibited receptivity among several animals in the vmh group . additional experiments , however , investigating the biphasic effect of p implants in the vmh suggested that the occurrence of copulation in the facilitation test may have been involved in mediating the subsequent increase in aggressive behavior and the suppression of sexual responsiveness in the inhibition test . nevertheless , a final experiment showed that when p was implanted sequentially in the vmh , facilitation and , more importantly , a later reduction in lordosis behavioral scores occurred even when copulation was eliminated in the facilitation test . p implants in mesencephalic regions exerted no significant inhibitory effect on receptivity . these findings demonstrate that the biphasic action of p in the female hamster is regulated by nerve cells located in the diencephalon , especially in the vmh region . 
energy-dependent uptake of 3 , 5 , 3'-triiodo-l-thyronine in rat skeletal muscle . the uptake of [ 125i ] t3 in rat skeletal muscle was investigated by incubating intact soleus muscles with a tracer amount of [ 125i ] t3 . at 37 c [ 125i ] t3 uptake increased asymptotically ; at 60 min the muscle contained 10 % of the total [ 125i ] t3 or 0.238 + / - 0.021 % per mg wet tissue . at 0 c the [ 125i ] t3 uptake was 1 / 5 of that at 37 c . the specific [ 125i ] t3 uptake , determined by subtracting the uptake in the presence of 10 microm unlabeled t3 from the total [ 125i ] t3 uptake , attained a plateau after 60 min . washout experiments , done by first incubating the muscle for 60 min at 37 c or 0 c with [ 125i ] t3 and then at 0 c for 3 h with unlabeled t3 , showed that 21 + / - 2 % or 58 + / - 4 % of the radioactivity , respectively , was released , indicating an intracellular location of the hormone after incubation at 37 c . addition of increasing concentrations of l-t3 , d-t3 and l-t4 caused a progressive inhibition of the [ 125i ] t3 uptake ; the 50 % inhibitory concentrations being 400 nm , 7 microm , and more than 15 microm , respectively . preincubation of soleus muscles with metabolic inhibitors almost completely inhibited [ 125i ] t3 specific uptake , with oligomycin and antimycin causing 98 + / - 4 % and 81 + / - 3 % reduction , respectively . monodansylcadaverine and bacitracin , inhibitors of receptor-mediated endocytosis , reduced the specific [ 125i ] t3 uptake in a dose-dependent manner up to 67 + / - 3 % and 62 + / - 2 % , respectively . these results indicate the presence of a saturable , stereospecific , and energy-dependent process responsible , at least in part , for t3 uptake in rat skeletal muscle . this specific t3 uptake may be a receptor-mediated endocytosis process . 
effects of 17 beta-estradiol on angiotensin ii receptors and prolactin release in cultured pituitary cells . angiotensin ii ( aii ) binds to specific receptors in the lactotroph and stimulates prl secretion from isolated rat pituitary cells . since estrogens exert major regulatory actions on prl secretion , the effects of estradiol ( e2 ) on pituitary aii receptors and prl responses were studied in vivo and in cultured rat anterior pituitary cells . in female rats , treatment with e2-containing silastic capsules for 4 days caused a significant increase in pra from 1.3 to 3 ng / ml x min and a 38 % decrease in the binding of [ 125i ] aii to anterior pituitary membrane-rich fractions ( p less than 0.01 ) . in vitro studies showed that treatment of cultured anterior pituitary cells with 1 nm e2 for 4 days caused a 57 + / - 6 % decrease in aii receptor concentration with no change in binding affinity . reduction of aii receptors by e2 in 4-day cultures was dose dependent and was demonstrable with e2 concentrations that occur in plasma during the estrous cycle ( 0.01-1 nm ) . the decrease in aii receptors in cells incubated with 1 nm e2 was near maximum after 24 h of culture , and results were similar when receptor concentrations were calculated per unit protein or per cell . despite the substantial decrease in aii receptors , e2 treatment did not specifically decrease the responsiveness of the pituitary cells to aii stimulation . thus , prl responses to aii ( 10 nm ) or trh ( 100 nm ) were unchanged after 1 day of e2 treatment and were increased after 4 days of treatment . these findings demonstrate that e2 has a direct inhibitory action on expression of pituitary aii receptors that is not accompanied by a decrease in aii-stimulated prl secretion . in the rat pituitary , estrogen modulation of postreceptor events is the predominant determinant of lactotroph responsiveness during stimulation of prl release by aii . 
processing and estrogen regulation of the 52-kilodalton protein inside mcf7 breast cancer cells . a 52k glycoprotein is secreted by human breast cancer cells in culture after estrogen stimulation . using monoclonal antibodies , we have quantitated and characterized the corresponding proteins of the cell compartment . using pulse-chase experiments , we have shown that about 40 % of the 52k protein is secreted , the majority being successively processed into a 48k and a 34k protein . this last protein is very stable . the processing is inhibited by lysosomotropic agents and leupeptin , suggesting that it occurs in acidic vesicles , such as lysosomes or endosomes . estradiol increased the intracellular level of immunoreactive 52k related proteins by 4-fold . its effect is , however , more obvious in the medium , since there is a constitutive level in the cell . the stimulatory effects of estradiol on [ 3h ] mannose and [ 35s ] methionine incorporation into these proteins were similar and the endoglycosydase h sensitivity of the proteins was not altered , suggesting that estradiol did not modulate the glycosylation step . antiestrogens did not stimulate synthesis and glycosylation of the 52k related proteins . estradiol also increased the stability of the 52k precursor as well as that of total proteins . we conclude that the secreted 52k protein is the precursor of two cellular proteins of 48k and 34k . estradiol stimulates both the intracellular accumulation of these proteins and the secretion of the precursor . 
structure-activity relationships of sex steroid analogs determined in vitro in a thyroid hormone-responsive membrane ca2+-atpase model . physiological concentrations of l-t4 were found previously to stimulate ca2+-atpase activity in vitro in reticulocyte membranes from female rabbits and to inhibit this enzyme in reticulocyte membranes from males . in these previous studies , preincubation of intact cells or ghosts with testosterone ( 5 x 10 ( -11 ) m ) converted female-source reticulocyte membranes to male-type responsiveness to thyroid hormone ( inhibition of ca2+-atpase activity ) . preincubation of reticulocyte membranes with 17 beta-estradiol ( 5 x 10 ( -11 ) m ) converted male-source membranes to female-type responsiveness ( stimulation by l-t4 of membrane ca2+-atpase activity ) . using this sex steroid-sensitive thyroid hormone-dependent membrane enzyme system , we investigated the structure-activity relationships of analogs of sex steroids and unrelated steroids . 5 beta-androstanes were active compared to testosterone in assays using female-source membranes , while 5 alpha-androstanes were less active . within the 5 beta-androstanes , activity was dependent on at least one hydroxyl group at the c3- or c17-position . nongonadal steroids tested were less active , establishing specificity of the sex steroid effect in assays using female-source membranes . assayed in male-source membranes , estrone and 3-hydroxy-1 , 3 , 5- ( 10 ) 7-estratraen-17-one ( equilin ) were active compared for estrogen effect with 17 beta-estradiol , while estriol was less active . the activities of hydrocortisone and aldosterone were 76 % and 71 % , respectively , in this system . these structure-activity relationships are distinct from those described for gonadal steroid-cytoplasmic binding proteins or nuclear interactions , and represent a novel sex steroid-thyroid hormone effect on activity of a membrane enzyme . 
calcium ion and cyclic adenosine 3 ' , 5'-monophosphate regulate proopiomelanocortin messenger ribonucleic acid levels in rat intermediate and anterior pituitary lobes . the role of the second messengers camp and ca++ in the control of proopiomelanocortin ( pomc ) gene expression was investigated with the use of hybridization with cloned complementary dna probes . the effects of camp-related drugs on pomc messenger rna ( mrna ) levels were assessed in primary cultures of intermediate ( il ) and anterior rat pituitary cells maintained in serum-free medium . 8-bromo-camp ( 1 mm ) , but not 8-bromo-cgmp ( 1 mm ) , induced a 2-fold increase in il and anterior lobe cell after 2 days of treatment . a similar increase was obtained with the adenylate cyclase-activating drugs forskolin ( 1 microm ) and cholera toxin ( 100 ng / ml ) or the phosphodiesterase inhibitor ro 20-1724 ( 100 microm ) . at 48 h , all these treatments had increased beta-endorphin accumulation in the medium and transiently decreased the cellular beta-endorphin content in il cells , suggesting a parallel effect of camp-related drugs on secretion and biosynthesis . incubating the cells with the ca++ channel antagonists d600 ( 50 microm ) , verapamil ( 50 microm ) , and the dihydropyridine nifedipine ( 0.1 microm ) decreased basal pomc mrna levels , whereas the dihydropyridine bayk 8644 ( 0.1 microm ) , which activates the ca++ channel , increased pomc mrna levels after 2 days . in addition , nifedipine decreased the stimulatory effect of forskolin , whereas bayk 8644 further stimulated the forskolin-increased pomc mrna levels in il cells . we conclude that both ca++ and camp may regulate the gene expression of pomc . 
the role of calcium in prolactin release from the pituitary of a teleost fish in vitro . the release of prl from the pituitary of a teleost fish , the tilapia ( oreochromis mossambicus ) , has been previously shown to be dependent on calcium . however , the source ( s ) and specific action ( s ) of calcium in the secretory process have not been identified . also undefined are the mechanisms by which regulators of prl cell function may alter calcium distribution . in the present investigation , the elevation of medium k+ concentration during static incubations to a depolarizing concentration ( 56 mm ) produced no change in cumulative prl release over control levels during the 18-20 h of incubation . during perifusion incubation , exposure to high k+ concentrations briefly stimulated ( less than or equal to 10 min ) and then depressed prl release . in contrast , reduced medium osmotic pressure elicited a rapid elevation in prl release that was sustained for 2 h or more . d600 , a calcium entry blocker , at 10 ( -5 ) m diminished the k+-induced pulses of prl release . the same concentration , however , did not alter the release of prl evoked by reduced osmotic pressure . in contrast , cocl2 , which blocks a range of calcium-mediated processes in addition to calcium influx , suppressed prl release during perifusion and static incubations in hyposmotic medium . these findings suggest that while prl secretion from the tilapia pituitary is calcium dependent , calcium entry through voltage-regulated plasmalemma channels may not be a prerequisite to the actions of reduced osmotic pressure . 
maternal melatonin communicates daylength to the fetus in djungarian hamsters . daylength ( photoperiod ) influences the rate of reproductive development in the juveniles of some photoperiodic species . recent studies show that daylength during the prenatal period is perceived by the fetus and that this perception can profoundly influence postnatal reproductive and somatic development . using the photoperiodic djungarian hamster , we assessed the role of the maternal pineal gland and its hormone , melatonin , in this prenatal perception of daylength . maternal pinealectomy eliminated the influence of prenatal photoperiod on testicular and body weights of male pups , suggesting that a product from the maternal pineal gland communicates daylength to the fetus . infusion of the pineal hormone melatonin into pinealectomized dams for various durations during gestation mimicked the effect of varying the prenatal photoperiod on both testicular and body weights . these results indicate that pineal melatonin is involved in this novel form of communication from mother to fetus . 
suppression by 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 of transcription of the pre-proparathyroid hormone gene . when bovine parathyroid cells in culture are exposed to the active vitamin d metabolite 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 , a significant decrease in the steady-state levels of pre-proparathyroid hormone ( pre-propth ) mrna occurs . the possibility that the fall in specific mrna is due to a decrease in rate of transcription of the pth gene was examined in this study . in the presence of 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 , there was a rapid and steady decline in pth gene transcription rate which fell to a minimum of 10-15 % of control at 24 h . the effect was observed at physiological levels ( 10 ( -11 ) m ) and was also fully reversible . 
a novel bioassay for lactogenic activity : demonstration that prolactin cells differ from one another in bio- and immuno-potencies of secreted hormone . a reverse hemolytic plaque assay for detecting casein release from individual mammary cells in culture was developed as a bioassay for prl . treatment with rat prl caused dose-related increases in the percentage of mammary cells that released casein and the average size of casein plaques that formed . the assay exhibited exquisite sensitivity ( 156 fg rat prl per assay slide ) and could be used to evaluate the biopotency of prl released from individual cells . by combining this " plaque bioassay " with a standard plaque assay for measuring the secretion of immunoreactive prl , it was possible to compare the bio- and immuno-potencies of hormone released from the same pituitary cells . the results of three separate studies revealed major differences among prl secretors in these potency estimates . given the existence of prl variants with different biological and immunological efficacies , these findings suggest that prl cells differ from one another in the molecular form ( s ) of hormone released . 
purification and immunological characterization of the rat liver insulin-like growth factor-ii receptor . rat liver microsomal insulin-like growth factor-ii ( igf-ii ) receptor has been purified to homogeneity using a single step affinity chromatographic procedure on agarose-igf-ii with elution at ph 4. determined by either igf-ii binding or a direct ria for receptor , purification of 2000-fold was obtained . the mean recovery was 28 % for five such preparations . sodium dodecyl sulfate-electrophoresis and autoradiography of purified receptor , radioiodinated receptor , and affinity-labeled receptor all indicated a molecular mass of approximately 250k . scatchard analysis of igf-ii binding to purified receptor , solubilized microsomal membranes , or plasma membranes showed a single class of binding site with an affinity constant of 6 x 10 ( 10 ) liter / mol in all cases . potent antibodies to the purified receptor were raised in rabbits , capable of inhibiting 50 % of igf-ii binding at dilutions of 1 : 170 , 000 and also of fully precipitating igf-ii-prelabeled receptor at 1 : 50 , 000. both types of antibodies reacted with igf-ii receptors in rat adipose tissue , brain , heart , kidney , lung , and spleen . however , little cross-reactivity was seen with other species . comparison of the ability of receptor antibodies to inhibit igf-ii binding to microsomal and plasma membranes indicated a specific immunological difference between the igf-ii receptors in the two membrane preparations . 
structures of high-mannose oligosaccharides of mouse thyrotropin : differential processing of alpha- versus beta-subunits of the heterodimer . we have determined the structures of high mannose ( man ) oligosaccharide units of the alpha- and beta-subunits of mouse tsh heterodimers and of free alpha-subunits . mouse thyrotropic tumor tissue , or pituitaries from euthyroid or hypothyroid mice , were incubated with d- [ 2-3h ] man , homogenized , and incubated in the presence or absence of ph 3 buffer to dissociate heterodimers . highly enriched tsh beta-subunits , or tsh heterodimers , were obtained using anti-tsh beta serum and free alpha-subunits were subsequently obtained using anti-lh alpha-serum . high man units released by endoglycosidase h were analyzed by paper chromatography . at 1 and 3 h oligosaccharides with 8 or 9 man residues predominated in all subunits . in all three tissue types , units with 9 man tended to accumulate in tsh beta-subunits , whereas man-trimming from man9glcnac to man8glcnac proceeded more rapidly in tsh alpha-subunits , and in free alpha-subunits . the rate of tsh beta-subunit processing was also a function of tissue type ; the rate in euthyroid pituitary tissue equaled that in tumor tissue and was greater than that in hypothyroid pituitary tissue , suggesting that processing may be physiologically regulated . hypothyroid calf serum slowed tsh alpha-subunit processing in euthyroid pituitaries . thus , the previously reported slower processing of man9glcnac to man8glcnac in heterodimers as compared to free alpha-subunits is in large part due to accumulation of man9glcnac in tsh beta-subunits . 
redistribution of ovarian blood flow after injection of human chorionic gonadotropin and luteinizing hormone in the adult pseudopregnant rat . it is well known that lh and human cg ( hcg ) induce an increase in total ovarian blood flow . the effect of lh / hcg on luteal blood flow , however , is unknown . this work studies the effect of hcg on both luteal and ovarian blood flows at different stages of pseudopregnancy in adult female rats . pseudopregnancy was induced by mating with sterile male rats . the length of pseudopregnancy was 13 + / - 1 days and , during this time , blood flow was measured by the injection of radioactive microspheres during anesthesia . at autopsy , the corpora lutea were identified and extirpated under a stereomicroscope . these , and the remaining ovary , were then counted for radioactivity and the blood flow was calculated . progesterone levels were determined in plasma and ovarian tissues . furthermore , the responsiveness of adenylate cyclase was tested in ovarian tissues at day 6 of pseudopregnancy . an intraarterial injection of hcg ( 50 iu ) or vehicle ( saline ) was given 20 min before the blood flow determinations in anesthetized rats . the luteal blood flow was not changed by hcg on days 2 , 6 , and 11 of pseudopregnancy , whereas in the remaining ovary the blood flow increased more than 2-fold , thereby resulting in redistribution of the blood flow . ten micrograms of nih-lh-b9 , tested at day 6 of pseudopregnancy , mimicked the effect of hcg . at day 6 of pseudopregnancy , hcg ( 50 iu ) was given ip to conscious rats 200 min and 24 h before blood flow determinations . at 200 min after hcg there was a more pronounced redistribution of ovarian blood flow with a 45 % reduction in luteal blood flow and a 4-fold increase in flow through the remaining ovary . lh as well as hcg doubled the progesterone content of the remaining ovary . in the corpora lutea an increased progesterone content was seen after 200 min of hcg exposure . at 24 h after hcg injection , all parameters had returned to control levels except that adenylate cyclase was nonresponsive . the increase in the total ovarian blood flow coincides with the increased steroidogenesis and these effects are likely due to release of metabolites and / or vasoactive substances . despite this increase , the blood flow of the corpus luteum was not increased rendering vascular mechanisms unlikely as a part of the acute lh / hcg effects on corpus luteum of pseudopregnancy . 
the type ii insulin-like growth factor ( igf ) receptor has low affinity for igf-i analogs : pleiotypic actions of igfs on myoblasts are apparently mediated by the type i receptor . we have characterized binding and several actions of the somatomedins [ insulin-like growth factors i and ii ( igf-i and igf-ii ) ] on l6 myoblasts . both igf-i and igf-ii are potent stimulators of amino acid uptake , cell proliferation , and differentiation ; they also suppress protein degradation in these cells . in all measurements , the relative potencies are igf-i greater than igf-ii greater than insulin . two recombinant dna-produced analogs of igf-i , ( thr59 ) igf-i and ( n-met ) igf-i , were as active as native igf-i in all four assays . however , when 125i-labeled hormones were used for studies of binding to igf receptors , there was a striking difference between the native and recombinant igf-i molecules . both were bound significantly by the type i receptor ( a 350k molecule that is dissociated upon sulfhydryl reduction ) , but the recombinant analogs exhibited little cross-reactivity with the type ii receptor ( a 220k molecule that is not dissociated by reduction ) . thus , the equal activity of native igf-i and its recombinant dna-produced analogs coupled with the higher potency of igf-i ( compared to igf-ii ) suggest that the type ii receptor plays little or no role in the four actions of the somatomedins studied in l6 myoblasts . 
constitutive steroidogenesis in the r2c leydig tumor cell line is maintained by the adenosine 3 ' , 5'-cyclic monophosphate-independent production of a cycloheximide-sensitive factor that enhances mitochondrial pregnenolone biosynthesis . these studies were designed to characterize constitutive steroidogenesis in leydig tumor cells . constitutive steroidogenesis was investigated by comparing constitutively active r2c leydig tumor cells to trophic hormone-responsive ma-10 leydig tumor cells . unlike the ma-10 cells , r2c cells appeared to synthesize steroid hormones independently of the camp-protein kinase pathway . although the adenylate cyclase of r2c cells could be stimulated in the expected manner by cholera toxin , camp concentrations in these cells were low , and r2c cell steroidogenesis could be dissociated from other camp-dependent processes . two camp-dependent processes in steroidogenic cells , protein kinase activation and lactate formation , showed low basal activities in r2c cells and could be stimulated by ( bu ) 2camp with a dose dependence similar to that detected in ma-10 cells . steroid hormone biosynthesis parallelled these other camp-dependent processes in ma-10 cells , but not in r2c cells . cycloheximide , however , caused similar dose-dependent inhibition of steroidogenesis in both the r2c and ma-10 cells . using a cell component bioassay , it was shown that r2c cells constitutively synthesize an extramitochondrial cycloheximide-sensitive factor that is functionally identical to the factor produced in response to hcg in ma-10 cells . this factor enhanced mitochondrial pregnenolone biosynthesis . thus , constitutive steroidogenesis in r2c cells could be explained by the camp-independent but cycloheximide-sensitive constitutive production of an extramitochondrial factor that activated mitochondrial pregnenolone biosynthesis . 
dexamethasone inhibition of hydrogen peroxide-stimulated glucose transport . although an action of corticosteroids to inhibit glucose transport is well known , the mechanism by which this is brought about has been unclear . some evidence has suggested an action on insulin receptors , but a postbinding or postreceptor effect has also been reported . as hydrogen peroxide acts at a postbinding site to stimulate glucose transport , studies were carried out in 3t3-l1 fibroblasts to determine whether corticosteroids would inhibit hydrogen peroxide-induced glucose transport . in this cell type , both insulin and hydrogen peroxide produced a marked increase in glucose transport after a 30-min incubation . the increase produced by hydrogen peroxide , as well as insulin , was inhibited by previous incubation of the cells with dexamethasone . these findings give further support to the conclusion that dexamethasone has effects on glucose transport at a postbinding site . as changes in membrane lipids influence the movement and / or activity of glucose transporters , and dexamethasone alters membrane lipids , dexamethasone-induced changes in the lipids of the plasma membrane may be important in the mediation of the steroid effect upon glucose transport . 
partial characterization of a somatomedin-like peptide from the medium of cultured rat sertoli cells . a peptide that is recognized by antibodies to human somatomedin-c / insulin-like growth factor i ( sm-c / igf-i ) has been partially purified from cultured sertoli cells prepared from sexually immature rats . the mol wt of this peptide is about 25 , 000 , as determined by gel filtration chromatography and immunoblot analysis of samples resolved by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis . isoelectric focusing indicated that the isoelectric point of this peptide was near neutrality . however , a smaller peptide of mol wt 8 , 000 that cross-reacted with antibodies to sm-c / igf-i , was released after gel filtration in acetic acid . similarly , reverse phase hplc on a c18 column under acidic conditions released a sm-c / igf-i immunoreactive peptide of 8 , 000 mol wt . this smaller species apparently resulted from the dissociation of this peptide from a binding protein . unlike the larger neutral form , the isoelectric point of the smaller peptide was 9.8 . this pi is similar to the gh-dependent sm-c / igf-i peptide isolated from rat serum . the small peptide , unlike the larger form , reacted in a parallel manner to human sm-c / igf-i in the sm-c / igf-i ria and radioreceptor assays . in addition , the 8 , 000 mol wt peptide behaved as a progression factor in the balb / c-3t3 assay and competed with [ 125i ] sm-c / igf-i for binding to the type i sm-c / igf-i receptor from cultured rat sertoli cells . in summary , results of this study demonstrate that rat sertoli cells in culture secrete a peptide that is the rat equivalent of human sm-c / igf-i . 
secretion of proliferin . proliferin ( plf ) is a member of the prl-gh family whose mrna has been detected in proliferating mouse cells in culture and in mouse placenta . suspensions of murine placental tissue have been shown to produce plf detectable by immunoprecipitation . here we report that plf is secreted as a heterogeneous glycoprotein by growing mouse cell lines and placental tissue and that the first 29 amino acids of the preprotein serve as a signal peptide . placental plf is immunologically distinguishable from the 2 previously described mouse placental lactogens . 
differential activity of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme a reductase in zones of the adrenal cortex . cholesterol metabolism and steroidogenesis in the outer ( zona fasciculata / glomerulosa ) and inner ( zona reticularis ) zones of the adrenal cortex were examined in the guinea pig . it is known from previous studies that the content of cholesterol in the inner zone is considerably lower than that in the outer zone , although basal low density lipoprotein ( ldl ) receptor activity is similar in the two zones . to further explore cholesterol metabolism in the guinea pig adrenal cortex , the activity of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme a ( hmg-coa ) reductase , the rate-limiting step in cholesterol synthesis , has been examined for which this paper forms the initial report . it was found that the basal specific activity of hmg-coa reductase was similar in the outer and inner adrenocortical zones ( approximately 230 pmol mevalonate formed / min x mg microsomal protein ) . the administration of acth caused 4- and 5-fold increases in hmg-coa reductase activity in the outer and inner zones , respectively . in fact , the increase in hmg-coa reductase activity with acth treatment was always greater for the inner zone than for the outer zone . this is in contrast to ldl receptor activity , which does not increase in the inner zone as it does in the outer zone with acth treatment . when dexamethasone was administered , hmg-coa reductase activity decreased in the outer zone by about 50 % , while there was no change in reductase activity in the inner zone . the latter finding is similar to what happens with ldl receptor activity during dexamethasone administration . why suppression of endogenous acth had no effect on hmg-coa reductase activity in the inner zone while exogenous acth administration caused a marked increase in enzyme activity is not clear , but may be related to phosphorylation / dephosphorylation mechanisms . based on the use of sodium fluoride in solutions to block hmg-coa reductase phosphatase , evidence is presented which indicates that a pharmacological dose of acth alters the phosphorylation / dephosphorylation status of hmg-coa reductase in the inner adrenocortical zone , but not in the outer cortical zone . 
species-specific processing of prodynorphin in the posterior pituitary of mammals . the steady state levels of the prodynorphin-derived opioid peptides , dynorphin a , dynorphin b , and alpha-neo-endorphin , have been extensively studied in the magnocellular / posterior pituitary system of the rat . to determine whether the rat system serves as a general model for prodynorphin processing in the mammalian posterior pituitary , we examined the steady state levels of prodynorphin-derived opioid peptides in the posterior pituitary systems of representatives of three diverse orders of mammals : guinea pig ( order rodentia ) , pig ( order artiodactyla ) , and rhesus monkey ( order primates ) . in each species studied there was evidence for species-specific deviations from the rat model . the most pronounced differences were observed with respect to the conversion of dynorphin a- ( 1-17 ) to dynorphin a- ( 1-8 ) . in rodents , rats , and guinea pigs , under steady state conditions , the molar ratios of these forms are approximately 1 : 2 and 2.5 : 1 , respectively . however , in the pig and rhesus monkey , the molar ratios of these forms are 10 : 1 and 14 : 1 , respectively . thus , under steady state conditions , the conversion of dynorphin a- ( 1-17 ) to dynorphin a- ( 1-8 ) appears to be a minor event in porcine and rhesus monkey posterior pituitary . species-specific variations were also observed with respect to the steady state levels of alpha-neo-endorphin and dynorphin b- ( 1-13 ) . in addition , the results of these studies suggest that the conversion of prodynorphin-derived opioids to leu-enkephalin probably represents a minor event in the species studied . 
postnatal development of pituitary lactotropes in the rat measured by reverse hemolytic plaque assay . developmental changes and sexual differences in the lactotrope population were studied with a reverse hemolytic plaque assay for detection and measurement of prl secretion from individual cells in conjunction with prl immunocytochemistry ( icc ) . pituitary glands from both sexes at different ages were monodispersed with 0.1 % trypsin . freshly dispersed cells were incubated in cunningham chambers for measurement of the fraction of plaque-forming cells and the size of plaques formed , or attached to glass slides for measurement of the fraction of cells staining for prl by icc . the percentage of plaque-forming cells in both sexes gradually increased with age from about 5 % of the total anterior pituitary cell population at 5 days of age to the adult levels of about 54 % in the females at proestrus and about 37 % in the males . sexual differences in the percentage of plaque-forming cells were consistently seen at 40 days of age and thereafter . the mean size of plaques in both sexes also increased with age from about 1 , 100 microns 2 at 5 days of age to a peak level of about 15 , 600 microns 2 in the females at proestrus and about 6 , 700 microns 2 in the males at 60 days of age ; then fell to the adult levels of about 5 , 500 microns 2 in the females at proestrus and about 3 , 200 microns 2 in males . sexual differences first appeared at 40 days of age and were estrogen-dependent . the results from icc closely matched those from the plaque assay , except at 5 days of age and in the adult males . at 5 days , the fraction of cells staining for prl was twice that of cells forming plaques . in adult male rats there were about 47 % immunostained prl cells but only about 39 % plaque-forming cells . this difference , however , disappeared after estrogen treatment . these results demonstrate that sexual differences in the lactotrope population develop around puberty in rats and appear to be estrogen dependent . 
effects of early pregnancy and acute 17 beta-estradiol administration on porcine uterine secretion , cyclic nucleotides , and catecholamines . this study investigated acute effects of 17 beta-estradiol ( e ) on ions , cyclic nucleotides , and catecholamines and their association with temporal changes in uterine secretory products in pregnant , cyclic , and nonpregnant gilts . uterine flushings ( utf ) and endometrium ( endom ) from one uterine horn of nonpregnant and pregnant gilts ( n = 9 ) were collected on days 10 , 12 , and 14 ( n = 3 ) . protein , plasma inhibitor ( p less than 0.05 ) , na+ , and k+ ( p less than 0.01 ) increased linearly in utf of pregnant gilts . ca2+ changed biphasically , with higher concentrations ( p less than 0.01 ) in pregnant gilts on day 12. endometrial camp and cgmp ( p less than 0.05 ) increased between days 12 and 14 of pregnancy . the utf norepinephrine ( ne ) concentrations increased ( p less than 0.01 ) in cyclic gilts between days 12 and 14 , while endometrial ne increased between days 10 and 12 and then decreased on day 14. the utf of pregnant gilts had higher ( p less than 0.05 ) concentrations of dopamine ( da ) , which peaked on day 12 and then decreased ( p less than 0.01 ) by day 14. da in utf of nonpregnant gilts decreased between days 10 and 12 and remained low on day 14. a catecholamine metabolite , 3 , 4-dihydroxyphenylglycol , in endom ( p less than 0.05 ) and utf ( p less than 0.01 ) decreased linearly between days 10 and 14. the turnover rate of endometrial catecholamines was 2.4-fold higher ( p less than 0.05 ) during early pregnancy compared with that in cyclic gilts . effects of acute administration of exogenous e ( 0.5 mg ) were also studied . the utf and endom were from day 11 nonpregnant gilts 0 , 30 , 60 , and 360 min ( n = 3 ) post-e or post-saline-ethanol ( c ) injection ( n = 9 ) . potassium , plasma inhibitor ( p less than 0.01 ) , and cgmp ( p less than 0.05 ) increased rapidly ( 30 min ) after e injection . the k+ level changed biphasically , with increased concentrations again at 360 min . plasmin inhibitor returned to levels similar to controls by 60 min , whereas cgmp remained elevated until 360 min postinjection when e , ca2+ , k+ ( p less than 0.01 ) , and na+ ( p less than 0.03 ) were increased . endom ne ( p less than 0.05 ) and utf da ( p less than 0.05 ) were lower in e-treated gilts . additionally , the turnover rate was significantly lower ( p less than 0.05 ) for ne and da in the utf of e-treated gilts . an increase in ca2+ in utf preceded increases in protein secretions ( except plasmin inhibitor ) and may play a role in e-stimulated endometrial epithelial secretory vesicle exocytosis . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) 
regulation of prolactin production and cell growth by estradiol : difference in sensitivity to estradiol occurs at level of messenger ribonucleic acid accumulation . 17 beta-estradiol increases the growth rate of gh4c1 cells with a half-maximally effective concentration ( ec50 ) that is about 10-fold less than the ec50 for the stimulation of prl production . we have examined the effects of five other estrogens : estriol , estrone , 17 alpha-estradiol , and the metabolism-resistant analogs ethynyl estradiol and moxestrol . all were full agonists for both effects , and all were more potent for the stimulation of cell growth than for stimulation of prl production . the order of analog potency for both biological effects was the same as the order of potency for inhibiting saturable [ 3h ] estradiol binding to intact cells . therefore , both biological effects appear to be mediated through the same receptor , and metabolism of 17 beta-estradiol is unlikely to account for the difference in the concentrations required to elicit the two effects . we selected two estrogen-responsive clones from a cdna library made from gh4c1 cells . the clones were chosen because they were induced at the estrogen concentrations that stimulate growth . estradiol caused maximal stimulation of the mrnas corresponding to the two recombinant clones at 10 ( -10 ) m , a concentration over 10-fold lower than that required for maximal stimulation of prl mrna . these data indicate that a difference in sensitivity to estrogen occurs at the level of mrna accumulation as well as at the level of the biological responses . 
bipolar secretion of androgen-binding protein and transferrin by sertoli cells cultured in a two-compartment culture chamber . the influence of various medium supplements on sertoli cell ( sc ) monolayer permeability to [ 3h ] inulin and polarized secretion of transferrin ( trf ) and androgen-binding protein ( abp ) was investigated in a two-compartment culture chamber . sc from 14- and 18-day-old rats were maintained for 13 days in one of the following media : modified eagle 's medium-ham 's f-12 ( dfm ) , dfm plus insulin , epidermal growth factor , progesterone , hydrocortisone , and vitamins a and e ( 6f ) , 6f plus testosterone ( 7f ) , 7f plus fsh ( 8f ) , 6f plus 2 % fetal bovine serum ( 6f2s ) , 6f plus 5 % fetal bovine serum ( 6f5s ) . the monolayer permeability to [ 3h ] inulin decreased rapidly during the initial 3-5 days of culture for the sc isolated from 18- and 14-day old animals , then remained stable in all media except dfm . morphological examination revealed the presence of tight junctions between neighbouring sc in both age groups , indicating their de novo formation . secretion of trf was lowest in dfm and steadily declined . in all other media , trf secretion peaked on day 5 and remained relatively constant after day 7. medium 7f only slightly and inconsistently increased the secretion , whereas 8f was always highly stimulatory compared to 6f . supplementation of 6f with serum resulted in the greatest trf secretion . in the case of abp , three different secretion patterns were noted depending on the medium composition ; secretion was greatest in the presence of 5 % fetal bovine serum . the medium supplements also differentially affected the polarity of trf and abp secretion . the ratio of trf secreted to the outer and inner compartments ( oc / ic ) was approximately 2.0 in dfm and was not influenced by supplements in 6f , 7f , and 8f . however , in serum-containing media , the oc / ic ratio gradually increased with time to about 5.0 on day 13. the average oc / ic ratio of abp was 1.7 in dfm and , in contrast to trf , declined to 0.7 in other serum-free media . serum supplementation reversed and increased the abp ratio to about 6.0 on day 13. these data indicate that sc grown on permeable supports form confluent monolayers that limit the diffusion of macromolecules , most likely due to the formation of tight junctions . the monolayer permeability as well as the total and polarized secretion of trf and abp are differentially regulated by hormones and serum factors . 
acute decrease in progesterone and increase in estrogen secretion caused by relaxin during late pregnancy in beef heifers . purified porcine relaxin ( 3000 u / mg ) was administered im ( rlx-im ; 1 mg ; n = 2 ) and in the cervical os ( rlx-os ; 1 mg ; n = 2 ) on day 273 ( approximately 10 days before parturition normally occurs ) of gestation to determine the profiles of immunoreactive relaxin and its effects on progesterone , estrone ( e1 ) , and 17 beta-estradiol ( 17 beta-e2 ) secretion in peripheral blood plasma of beef heifers . controls received either 0.01 m pbs ( 1 ml , im ; n = 2 ) or 0.01 m gel-pbs ( gel ; 1 ml , os ; n = 2 ) in cervical os . one relaxin-treated ( im ) heifer calved at 4 h and 36 min after treatment ; thus , data from this heifer were not included in subsequent analysis . relaxin-treated heifers showed an acute elevation in relaxin , a precipitous decrease in progesterone , and a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) elevation of e1 and 17 beta-e2 . plasma relaxin levels were 4.95 , 1.5 , and 0.24 ng / ml at 0.5 h in rlx-im , rlx-os , and control animals , respectively . peripheral plasma relaxin peaked between 23-31 ng / ml 1-2.5 h before returning to less than 0.5 ng / ml 5-12 h after treatment . relaxin administration accounted for 70 % , 73 % , and 58 % of the progesterone , e1 , and 17 beta-e2 variability between treatments , respectively . an abrupt decrease ( p less than 0.01 ) in progesterone preceded the rises ( p less than 0.05 ) in e1 and 17 beta-e2 at 1.5 , 2-2.5 , and 2-3.5 h , respectively . maximum progesterone deviations from the pretreatment mean concentration were -5.43 , -3.05 , and -0.92 ng / ml for rlx-im , rlx-os , and controls . progesterone rebounded from 36 % to 61 % and 62 % to 79 % of respective pretreatment means for rlx-im and rlx-os . peak elevation of e1 was 407.3 , 306.5 , and 71.5 pg / ml and that of 17 beta-e2 was 82.2 , 35.8 , and 7.8 ng / ml for rlx-im , rlx-os , and controls , respectively . these results provide strong evidence that a pharmacological dosage of relaxin induces an acute depression of progesterone secretion beginning within 90 min in beef heifers during late pregnancy . we suggest that these early and marked luteolytic effects of relaxin on progesterone secretion in cattle could be by direct or indirect actions via mechanisms that are yet unknown . 
triiodothyronine binding in adult rat brain : compartmentation of receptor populations in purified neuronal and glial nuclei . in order to investigate the localization of nuclear t3 receptors in adult rat brain , we have developed a technique for separating neuronal and glial nuclei , and compared nuclear t3 binding in both fractions . glial and neuronal nuclear populations were prepared by homogenization of the whole brain except the cerebellum , followed by discontinuous density gradient centrifugation in 2.4 and 2.2 m sucrose . for purposes of comparison , liver nuclei were prepared by centrifugation in 2.4 m sucrose . microscopic examination of the nuclei confirmed the purity of the two nuclear fractions to be above 90 % with minimal extranuclear contamination . t3 binding studies were performed on the washed nuclear fractions using saturation analysis techniques . maximum binding ( bmax ) and dissociation constant ( kd ) were obtained by nonlinear least-squares regression analysis . after 30 min incubation at 37 c , bmax in neuronal nuclei was 1203 + / - 118 fmol / mg dna ( mean + / - se ) ( n = 6 ) , in comparison with 196 + / - 14 fmol / mg dna in glial nuclei ( n = 7 ) . the corrected value for bmax in glial nuclei , assuming 8 % neuronal nuclear contamination , was 100 fmol / mg dna . bmax in liver nuclei was contamination , was 100 fmol / mg dna . bmax in liver nuclei was 299 + / - 38 fmol / mg dna ( n = 6 ) . the kd values were 0.38 + / - 0.04 nm , 0.34 + / - 0.05 nm , and 0.33 + / - 0.04 nm in neuronal , glial , and liver nuclei , respectively . the specificity of t3 binding to the nuclear receptor in both neuronal and glial nuclei was studied in competition studies , and revealed closely similar relative binding affinities ( t3 greater than t4 greater than rt3 ) in both . we conclude that the higher t3 binding capacity of neuronal nuclei may be related to their higher protein synthetic ability , suggesting that t3 may be of importance in a rapid structural turnover in these cells . the effect of t3 on myelination in glial cells may be mediated through the nucleus . 
dynamic pituitary and ovarian changes occurring during the anestrus to estrus transition in the golden hamster . anestrous hamsters exhibit daily afternoon gonadotropin and progesterone surges , but little estrogen secretion . in the first experiment , short day anestrous females were transferred to long days to detect hormonal changes associated with recovery of cyclicity . morning and afternoon blood samples were taken at increasing durations in long days . females autopsied at their first vaginal estrus after transfer to long days differed from long day estrous controls only in their lower uterine weights . some females at all durations exhibited signs of recovery , though they had not yet shown estrus . they did not display afternoon gonadotropin surges and had low circulating progesterone but high estradiol levels , stimulated uteri , and enhanced follicular development . results of the second and third experiments provided evidence that the daily gonadotropin surges are not the cause per se of anestrus , and that changes in estrogen secretion are essential for the transition to and from anestrus . phenobarbital blockade of the daily surges in anestrous females did not result in increased follicular growth and estrogen secretion . furthermore , daily afternoon injections of gonadotropins it appears that the daily surges in anestrous hamsters simply reflect low estradiol levels . it is still not known what signal promotes rapid follicular maturation during the recovery from anestrus . once initiated , however , this recovery appears to occur within a few days , with a rapid cascade of events . first , follicular development and estrogen secretion resume , and the daily lh surges cease . then , progesterone levels decline , and an ovulatory surge of gonadotropins is triggered . 
the carbohydrate moiety of bovine thyrotropin is essential for full bioactivity but not for receptor recognition . tsh is a glycoprotein hormone whose carbohydrate content varies among different species . although recent studies suggest that variants of tsh deficient in carbohydrate occur naturally , the significance of the carbohydrate moiety of tsh in respect to its thyrotropic function is unclear . the present studies were undertaken , therefore , to examine this question . a highly purified preparation of bovine tsh ( btsh ) was deglycosylated by treatment with anhydrous hydrogen fluoride . amino acid and carbohydrate analyses of the original and deglycosylated preparations indicated that approximately 85 % of the carbohydrate originally present had been removed and that the protein moiety was unaltered . as judged from tsh radioreceptor assays , btsh and deglycosylated btsh ( dg-btsh ) bound to human thyroid membranes with equal affinity , since both caused a half-maximal inhibition of [ 125i ] btsh binding at approximately equal concentrations . nonetheless , dg-btsh at optimal concentration displayed only about one third the activity of intact tsh in stimulating adenylate cyclase activity in human thyroid membranes . dg-btsh also antagonized the adenylate cyclase-stimulating activity of intact btsh in this system , but only weakly , since abolition of the btsh effect required an approximately 40-fold higher concentration of dg-btsh . in cultures of frtl5 cells , a cloned line of follicular cells derived from normal rat thyroid , both intact and dg-btsh enhanced cell growth , as measured by [ 3h ] thymidine incorporation and stimulated camp release in the medium , but the response elicited by dg-btsh was much less than that caused by equal concentrations of the intact hormone . in accord with the findings in the in vitro assays , dg-btsh evoked a much smaller response than btsh did in the in vivo mouse assay . it is concluded that although not required for receptor recognition , the carbohydrate moiety of btsh is essential for the full expression of its biological activity . 
osmotic pressure regulation of prolactin and growth hormone release from bovine secretory granules . prl and gh are stored in bovine pituitary secretory granules in part as intermolecular disulfide-linked multimers ( as many as 50 monomers / oligomer ) . in vitro incubation of granules with reduced glutathione ( gsh ) results in the production of monomeric hormones and increased hormone release . we tested the hypothesis that increases in intragranular osmolality due to conversion of oligomers to lower mol wt forms are key to granule rupture . hormone release was measured after granule incubations in medium made hyperosmotic by the addition of raffinose or sucrose . prl release at ph 7.8 with 0.7 m raffinose was reduced to 43.5 % of the control value , whereas gh release ranged from 70-100 % of the control value . augmented release stimulated by 2 mm gsh was also diminished by raffinose , to 17.9 % ( prl ) and 75.6 % ( gh ) of control values . the ic50 for raffinose inhibition of prl release was 0.62 m ; this shifted to 0.38 m in the presence of 2 mm gsh . raffinose also blunted the granule response to gsh at all other gsh concentrations tested and decreased stimulated release at ph 9 as well as at 7.8 . interference with the ability to maintain an osmotic gradient , a maneuver accomplished by partial disruption of granule membranes with 0.5 % deoxycholate treatment , reduced or abolished the raffinose inhibition . molecular sizing of granule fractions on superose-6 ( pharmacia ) indicated that prl monomers remaining in the pelletable granule fraction increased with raffinose about 2-fold under both basal and gsh-stimulated conditions . these data support the concept that thiol : disulfide equilibria may be important in prl and gh storage and secretion by their influence on intragranular osmolality . in exocytosis in vivo , osmotically mediated granule rupture may be triggered by thiols during granule : plasma membrane fusion . 
the metabolism of vitamin d3 during fracture healing in chicks . the metabolism of vitamin d3 was studied in chicks after experimental fractures were performed on their tibiae . the chicks were fed for 3 weeks a vitamin d-deficient diet but were supplemented with radioactive labeled vitamin d3 . the chicks were then divided into two groups . in the first group the right tibia was fractured , whereas the second group served as nonfractured control group . during the following days of fracture healing , the metabolites of [ 3h ] vitamin d3 were measured in callus , epiphysis , diaphysis , plasma , duodenum , and kidney . histological examination of calluses and bones , measurements of intestinal absorption of calcium , and renal production of dihydroxylated metabolites of vitamin d3 were performed as well . the levels of the dihydroxylated metabolites were increased in the calluses and the levels of [ 3h ] 24 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 were found to coincide with the formation of cartilaginous tissue and with the renal production of this steroid . in the duodenum of the fractured chicks , the levels of [ 3h ] 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 dropped significantly during the first week after fracture , coinciding with reduction in the intestinal absorption of calcium . in the plasma during those 3 weeks of healing process the levels of [ 3h ] 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 were far below normal . these findings indicate that during the process of fracture repair , changes in the metabolism and expression of vitamin d are taking place in order to meet the new requirements of the body under stress condition of skeletal fracture . 
1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 exerts opposite effects on the regulation of human embryonic and nonembryonic alkaline phosphatase isoenzymes . the regulation of alkaline phosphatase activity by steroid hormones was studied in two human breast cancer cell lines , mda-mb-157 and bt20 . mda-mb-157 cells were shown to express the alkaline phosphatase isoenzyme produced by normal breast tissue , and the activity of this isoenzyme increased 3-fold after a 72-h treatment of these cells with 10 ( -7 ) m 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 [ 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 ] , 2-fold after treatment with 10 ( -6 ) m hydrocortisone ( hc ) , and 5-fold after treatment with both hormones . bt20 cells did not express the isoenzyme phenotypic to breast , but ectopically expressed the isoenzyme phenotypic to term placenta and other embryonic tissue . treatment of bt20 cells with 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 results in a 30 % decrease in alkaline phosphatase activity of the embryonic isoenzyme . there was a 2-fold increase in activity after treatment with hc , and enzyme activity was similar to control values after treatment with both hormones . for both cell lines , changes in alkaline phosphatase activity correlated with changes in nanograms of isoenzyme per mg cellular protein , as measured by ria . increases in enzyme activity were inhibited when the cells were incubated simultaneously with the steroids and cycloheximide . studies with receptors in each cell line showed that both cell lines bound 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 and that a 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3-binding protein with the same mol wt as the d3 receptor was present in both . the bt20 cells also express a larger mol wt protein which binds 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 but is not as specific for the 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 isomer . hc receptors were similar in quantity and binding affinity in both cell lines . 
effect of thyroid hormones and high carbohydrate feeding on gene expression in rat epididymal adipose tissue . we have determined the messenger rna activity profiles of epididymal fat in euthyroid , hypothyroid , and hyperthyroid rats as well as in animals fed a high carbohydrate fat-free ( lipogenic ) diet . radioautographs of two-dimensional gels of the in vitro translational products of rna were quantitated by computer-assisted videodensitometry and analyzed by multivariate statistics . of the 250 spots observed , each presumably representing the translational product of a separate messenger rna , 21 were responsive to changes in hormonal state . eighteen increased and two decreased at some stage in the transition from the hypothyroid to the hyperthyroid state . one spot changed in a biphasic manner . eight products responded to the lipogenic diet , six increasing and two decreasing . six of these eight spots responded in a similar fashion to thyroid hormone administration . as previously shown for liver , there appears to be a substantial overlap between the genomic response to carbohydrate and thyroid hormone administration . whereas the carbohydrate-generated changes are largely included in the thyroid-hormone induced alterations , the majority of thyroid hormone responsive changes are not duplicated by the diet . multivariate analysis showed a clear separation of each state from the others and revealed that it was necessary to monitor only nine spots to achieve an effective separation of the states analyzed . 
nuclear 3 , 5 , 3'-triiodothyronine ( t3 ) in brown adipose tissue : receptor occupancy and sources of t3 as determined by in vivo techniques . the amount and sources of t3 associated with high affinity , low capacity cellular nuclear receptors in brown adipose tissue ( bat ) have been estimated by in vivo pulse-labeling techniques . maximal binding capacity was measured by in vivo saturation analysis . nuclear receptor occupancy at endogenous levels of t3 and t4 in euthyroid rats was estimated from the equilibrium nuclear to serum ratio of tracer t3 , and the locally generated nuclear t3 to serum t4 ratio after injecting tracer t3 and t4 . these ratios were multiplied , respectively , by the endogenous concentrations of t3 and t4 as measured by ria . the maximal binding capacity was 0.65 ng t3 / mg dna , and saturation was 71 % . fifty-five percent of the nuclear t3 was generated locally , and 45 % was derived from circulating t3 . bat is , hence , comparable to the liver in number of receptors ( approximately 5000 / cell ) and to the pituitary with regard to saturation and relative contributions of locally generated t3 and plasma t3 to nuclear t3 . these results suggest that bat may be an important target for thyroid hormones and , along with other data , that alterations in the activity of the type ii 5'-deiodinase of this tissue may influence the saturation of nuclear t3 receptors . 
oxytocin gene expression in discrete hypothalamic magnocellular cell groups is stimulated by prolonged salt loading . the effect of prolonged osmotic stimulation on the oxytocin ( ot ) mrna levels of ot-producing neurons was investigated in separate hypothalamic nuclei of the rat . after drinking 2 % nacl for 2 weeks , a 2-fold increase in the ot mrna content was found by northern blot analysis of microdissected supraoptic nucleus ( son ) and paraventricular nucleus ( pvn ) . the same samples showed a similar change in vasopressin ( vp ) mrna levels . this treatment resulted in a 70 % depletion of both ot and vp from the neurointermediate lobe of the pituitary gland and a marked increase in ot and vp plasma levels . analysis of the ot mrna concentration by quantitative in situ hybridization showed that the son , pvn , and anterior commissural nucleus responded similarly , with a 1.5-fold increase in ot mrna after 7 days of osmotic stimulation . these results demonstrate that ot gene expression in the magnocellular neurons of the son , pvn , and anterior commissural nucleus is sensitive to this osmotic stimulus , as is the vp gene of magnocellular neurons in the son and pvn . the responsiveness of ot-producing neurons may point to a role for ot in the regulation of water and electrolyte balance . 
progressive recruitment of follicular cells with graded secretory responsiveness during stimulation of the thyroid gland by thyrotropin . one of the earliest responses of the thyroid cells to tsh is macropinocytosis with formation of intracellular colloid droplets . we demonstrate here that increasing stimulation with tsh not only elicits a highly individual macropinocytotic response among different follicular cells but that the fraction of tsh-responsive cells is also a function of the tsh dose . after pretreatment with t4 , mice and rats were injected ip with bovine tsh and killed 2 h later . the macropinocytotic response to tsh was evaluated on periodic acid-schiff-stained 3-microns sections of the thyroids in terms of droplet number per 25 follicles and , in addition , by assessing recruitment , i.e. percentage of droplet-containing cells . both variables increased with increasing tsh stimulation until they reached a plateau at about 9 mu tsh in mice and at about 300 mu tsh in rats : the percentage of droplet-containing cells gradually increased in mice from 2 % ( no tsh ) to 67 % ( 9 mu tsh ) and in rats from 11 % ( no tsh ) to 54 % ( 300 mu tsh ) . overall pinocytotic response as well as thyrocyte recruitment could be modified by extra- and intrathyroidal factors : for example , pretreatment of the mice with an iodine-deficient diet increased the maximal percentage of droplet containing cells to nearly 90 % . obviously , two separate components of the macropinocytotic response of the thyroid gland to tsh can be distinguished : the first is the gradually increasing fraction of droplet-containing cells , the second is the well known increase of the number of colloid droplets in each tsh-responsive cell with progressive tsh stimulation . recruitment of thyrocytes with a gradually increasing natural threshold to a hormonal stimulus appears to be a fundamental mechanism in the thyroid gland and possibly in other organs . 
indices of noradrenergic function in the central nervous system of seizure-naive genetically epilepsy-prone rats . norepinephrine concentrations and tyrosine hydroxylase activity were determined in the brains of moderate-seizure and severe-seizure genetically epilepsy-prone rats ( geprs ) and in nonepileptic control rats . both moderate-seizure ( gepr-3 ) and severe-seizure ( gepr-9 ) animals had widespread abnormalities in brain norepinephrine concentrations . abnormalities in tyrosine hydroxylase activity were restricted to the midbrain . the state of abnormal seizure susceptibility , but not severity , in the gepr may be determined by noradrenergic deficits in the hypothalamus / thalamus . both seizure severity and susceptibility may be determined by noradrenergic deficits in the telencephalon , midbrain , and pons-medulla . seizure severity but not susceptibility may be determined by noradrenergic abnormalities in the cerebellum . 
congenital defects among the offspring of epileptic fathers : role of the genotype and phenytoin therapy in a mouse model . the progeny of coisogenic c57bl / 6j mice homozygous for either the tottering ( tg / tg ) or wildtype ( + / + ) allele were examined to determine the role of parental seizure disorders and paternal anticonvulsant drug therapy on the incidence of congenital malformations . pregnancy outcomes in which one , both , or neither of the parents had an epileptic genotype were compared for various maternal and fetal reproductive parameters . in addition , the progeny from phenytoin-treated male tottering ( tg / tg ) mice with a spontaneous seizure disorder and from control untreated ( + / + ) male mice were similarly examined for evidence of congenital defects . the results of these experiments suggest that neither the parental genotype with respect to seizure disorders nor paternal anticonvulsant treatment with phenytoin is responsible for an increased incidence of congenital malformations . 
seizures induced or aggravated by anticonvulsants . six cases of epileptic children are reported , in whom anticonvulsant therapy , aggravated rather than controlled the seizures or induced minor seizures . this was caused by excessive polytherapy in one case and by the use of the inappropriate drug ( for that type of epilepsy ) in four other cases . in the sixth case , the appropriate anticonvulsant was used , but it induced multiple astatic-myoclonic seizures . this phenomenon of drug-induced seizures is apt to occur particularly in certain types of childhood epilepsy that are refractory to therapy and are accompanied by slow spike-wave discharges in the eeg , such as the lennox-gastaut syndrome . 
effect of interictal epileptiform discharges on nocturnal plasma prolactin concentrations in epileptic patients with complex partial seizures . to investigate the effect of interictal epileptiform discharges ( ieds ) on plasma prolactin ( prl ) level , we studied 18 epileptic patients with complex partial seizures ( cps ) who did not experience clinical or subclinical ictal events during all-night monitoring with polygraphic recording and video imaging . the density of ieds peaked during non-rem stages and was significantly reduced during rem stage . mean plasma prl concentrations in epileptic patients , when sampled at 30-min intervals , showed a moderate but significant elevation during non-rem ( p less than 0.001 ) and awake stages ( p less than 0.005 ) , but not during rem stage , when compared with 10 nonepileptic control subjects studied in a similar fashion . the data obtained in this physiologically controlled environment indicate that the cumulative effect of ieds may modify prl regulatory mechanisms , resulting in a modest elevation of plasma concentrations independent of ictal discharges . 
prevalence and prognosis of epilepsy in patients with multiple sclerosis . an analysis of 599 clinically definite multiple sclerosis ( ms ) patients including all known cases of the southern province of finland in january 1 , 1979 revealed epileptic seizures in 21 ( 3.5 % ) patients . on that date , 12 patients needed treatment ( 2.0 % ) . the age-adjusted prevalence of active epilepsy was significantly higher than that in the general population . the percentage of partial seizures ( 67 % ) was significantly increased in proportion to a series of 100 adult epilepsy patients , with a comparable age distribution . in 10 patients ( including three patients with symptomatic epilepsy ) , the attacks appeared before the ms symptoms . the mean follow-up after the first seizures was 19.3 years . in 10 patients , the seizures disappeared totally during the surveillance until september 1985. our results show an increased comorbidity between ms and epilepsy . in most cases , however , the prognosis of epilepsy was good and there seemed not to be any clear correlation between the severity of ms and epilepsy . 
epilepsy in general practice : the dutch situation . treatment and supervision of epileptic patients is part of specialist medicine . a possible change in the role of specialists and general practitioners in the care of these patients was explored by a questionnaire mailed to all dutch neurologists and a random sample of general practitioners . patients were also asked their opinion . the real situation was studied in a group of patients retrieved from the registers of general practitioners . demographic , psychosocial , and epilepsy characteristics were sampled . specialists tend not to want a change in their role ; general practitioners desire a change . at present , patients do not want a change , but in future a change might be acceptable to them . more patients than expected were supervised by their general practitioner only . their demographic and psychosocial characteristics did not differ from those in the population at large . epilepsy characteristics corresponded with those in other studies . 
previous experiences with epilepsy and effectiveness of information to change public perception of epilepsy . differences with regard to the effectiveness of health information and attitude change are suggested between people with direct , behavioral experiences with a health topic and people with indirect , nonbehavioral experiences . the effects of three different methods of health education about epilepsy , frequently used in health education practice , are assessed in a pretest posttest design with control groups , controlling for experiences with epilepsy . subjects were 132 students from teacher-training colleges . after all treatments , attitudes , and knowledge about epilepsy were changed in a positive way . treatments were found to be equally effective . before treatment , direct behavioral experiences were related to knowledge and a more positive attitude towards epilepsy . after treatment , subjects with direct behavioral experiences with epilepsy showed less change of attitude and knowledge as compared with subjects with indirect experiences . direct experiences appear to restrain the processing of new information and attitude change . 
fertility in persons with epilepsy : 1935-1974 . data from the rochester-olmsted county medical records linkage project were utilized to assess fertility in persons with epilepsy . population age-specific reproduction rates for rochester residents for the years 1935-1974 were estimated using the number of live births from the minnesota department of health statistics and vital statistics of the u.s. for comparison with rates in affected persons . overall , fertility rates were significantly reduced to 80 % of expected for affected males and 85 % for affected females . individuals with partial seizures ( simple and complex ) were disadvantaged , whereas those with generalized onset were not . during the last 20 years of the study period , males were more disadvantaged than females . the male-female difference was greatest during the time of low population fertility ( after 1965 ) . male deficits were more marked after diagnosis ; female deficits were more marked before diagnosis . differences in the proportion of ever-married person-years between the sexes only partially explain the observed differences . 
academic achievement of children with epilepsy . the academic achievement scores of 122 children with epilepsy were examined in relation to demographic and clinical seizure variables . as a group , these children were making less academic progress than expected for their age and iq level . academic deficiencies were greatest in arithmetic , followed by spelling , reading , comprehension , and word recognition . results of the multiple regression analyses indicated a modest combined predictive significance of the demographic and clinical seizure variables for academic performance . in addition , the magnitude of these relationships varied by academic area . among the individual variables examined the strongest correlates of academic performance were age of the child , age of seizure onset , lifetime total seizure frequency , and presence of multiple seizures ( absence and tonic-clonic ) . these results are discussed in relation to developing an understanding of the factors which underlie academic vulnerability in children with epilepsy . 
behavioral characteristics of epilepsy patients compared with normal controls . using neuropsychological testing procedures , we measured the behavioral characteristics of patients with epilepsy unaffected by anticonvulsant drugs and compared these results with control subjects matched for age , sex , and education . in a nationwide va cooperative study , 622 patients with well-defined seizure types were given a selected battery of neuropsychological tests prior to and at 1 month after initiation of drug therapy . seventy-four control subjects were administered the same test battery under standardized conditions at the same va testing centers . all tests of controls were also repeated 1 month later . the patients with epilepsy scored significantly and consistently below the level of the control subjects on all but three behavioral measures . differences reaching statistical significance were found on tests of motor function ( finger tapping , pegboard , color naming ) , cognitive-attention ( digit symbol , discriminative reaction time , word fluency ) , and subtests of the profile of mood status ( tension , depression , vigor , and confusion ) . these data provide a profile of behavioral characteristics of unmedicated patients with epilepsy . 
ictal tinnitus . unilateral high pitched tinnitus was the sole epileptic ictal manifestation of a 45-year-old woman . electrographic seizures originated from the contralateral midtemporal area and consistently correlated with tinnitus . computed tomography ( ct ) demonstrated a lesion involving the superior temporal gyrus and inferior portion of the supramarginal gyrus . the case illustrates a cortical origin of tinnitus . 
nonsurgical treatment of ectopic pregnancy . 
endometrial tissue in peritoneal fluid . peritoneal fluid ( pf ) was studied for the presence of endometrial tissue in a consecutive series of 67 women ( with documented tubal patency ) undergoing diagnostic laparoscopy , tubal lavage , and hysteroscopy . pf was completely aspirated from the cul-de-sac both before and after uterine irrigation . the pf was then analyzed for the presence of endometrial tissue . in native pf no significant difference in the incidence of endometrial tissue between patients with ( 19 % ) and without ( 11 % ) endometriosis ( p = 0.6 ) was observed . refluxed pf , obtained after uterine irrigation , showed a significantly higher incidence of endometrial tissue in women with endometriosis ( 76 % ) as compared to controls ( 42 % ) ( p = 0.03 ) . we propose two models to explain the development of endometriosis . these are not mutually exclusive , may be independent of each other , and may represent two distinct pathophysiologic disease processes . 
classification of endometriotic implants by morphologic appearance and capacity to synthesize prostaglandin f . the severity of the symptoms of endometriosis has not always correlated well with the anatomic severity of the disease . this lack of correlation may be due to variations in the metabolic activity of the endometriotic implants present at different stages of the disease . because prostaglandin f ( pgf ) has been implicated as a hormonal mediator of the clinical symptoms of endometriosis , pgf synthesis and content was measured in implants from 14 patients with mild , moderate , severe , or extensive disease . to assess whether pgf production was related to the status of implants , the authors classified implants , based on gross and histologic criteria , as petechial or reddish ; intermediate or brown ; or powder-burn or black . pgf production of implants from patients with mild or moderate disease was greater than that of implants from patients with severe or extensive disease ( p less than 0.05 ) , and pgf content was similar for all stages of endometriosis . petechial implants produced twice the amount of pgf than intermediate implants ( p less than 0.05 ) , which in turn produced more pgf than powder-burn implants ( p less than 0.05 ) . powder-burn implants did not have the in vitro capacity to produce pgf , and the amount of pgf contained in implants of all classes was similar . therefore , endometriotic implant pgf production and possibly other biochemical activities are dependent on the physical status of the implant . the classification of implants by morphologic appearance may afford additional assistance in determining the prognosis of the disease and in the examination of the subtle effects of the disease on symptoms . 
a preoperative classification to predict the intrauterine and ectopic pregnancy rates after distal tubal microsurgery . a simple preoperative classification is described to predict the intrauterine and ectopic pregnancy rates following distal tubal microsurgery . laser co2 microsurgical salpingostomies were performed on 76 patients between january 1979 and january 1984. all of the patients underwent a preoperative assessment , which included hysterosalpingogram and laparoscopy , to formulate a preoperative classification based on a point system . the patients were divided into four groups according to tubal damage , with a subsequent intrauterine pregnancy rate of 58.3 % in grade i , 36.6 % in grade ii , 9.5 % in grade iii , and 0 % in grade iv . the patients were divided into four groups according to adhesions , with a subsequent intrauterine pregnancy rate of 38.8 % with no adhesion , 32.0 % with mild adhesions , 26.6 % with moderate adhesions , and 5.5 % with severe adhesions . from these results , a preoperative management is proposed for patients being considered for either distal tubal microsurgery or in vitro fertilization . 
subtle abnormalities in follicular development and hormonal profile in women with unexplained infertility . a prospective study of six unselected couples diagnosed as having unexplained infertility was done . in three of six patients , subtle abnormalities in follicular development were detected . in the first case poor follicular growth was observed . there was a premature small rise of luteinizing hormone ( lh ) with subsequent low levels of estradiol ( e2 ) in the late follicular phase and unusual wide lh peak . this was followed by low progesterone levels in the luteal phase . in the second case follicular growth was abrupted by premature lh surge . this surge was triggered by early rise of e2 level while the follicle was still small in size . in the third case luteinized unruptured follicle syndrome was diagnosed , on ultrasound examination . all of the abnormalities were repetitive . 
oral contraceptives in diabetic women : metabolic effects of four compounds with different estrogen / progestogen profiles . the metabolic effects of four oral contraceptives with different estrogen / progestogen profiles ( monophasic nonalkylated estrogen / norethindrone , low-dose monophasic ethinyl estradiol ( ee2 ) / norethindrone , progestogen only treatment with norethindrone , and triphasic ee2 / levonorgestrel ) were examined in insulin-dependent diabetic women . during the 6-month study period , no differences were found in fasting plasma glucose , 24-hour insulin requirements , glycated hemoglobin , free fatty acids , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations , or high-density lipoprotein cholesterol / total cholesterol ratio between the patients in each treatment group . compared with the nonalkylated estrogen / norethindrone and the triphasic ee2 / levonorgestrel formulations , the low-dose ee2 / norethindrone combination resulted in small but significant increases in plasma triglyceride and very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels ( p less than 0.01 ) , which seemed unfavorable from a clinical point of view . norethindrone-only treatment appeared to be an appropriate alternative to both the nonalkylated estrogen / norethindrone combination and the triphasic ee2 / levonorgestrel formulations . 
intracervical versus intrauterine insemination : correlation of outcome with antecedent postcoital testing . thirty-four infertile women alternated cycles of intracervical insemination ( ici ) with whole ejaculate homologous semen ( mean , 3.2 cycles / patient ) versus intrauterine insemination ( iui ) with washed sperm ( mean , 3.4 cycles / patient ) . twenty of the 34 women had prior postcoital tests consistently demonstrating less than or equal to 3 motile sperm per high-powered field ( hpf ) . six of those 20 conceived during iui cycles ( 30.0 % ) ; 0 conceived during ici cycles ( p = 0.06 , mantel-haenszel chi-square test ) . the pregnancy rate per iui cycle was 6 / 72 ( 8.3 % ) , compared with 0 / 66 ( 0.0 % ) per ici cycle , a statistically significant difference ( p = 0.04 , fisher 's exact chi-square test ) . fourteen of 34 women had prior postcoital tests consistently demonstrating greater than or equal to 5 motile sperm per hpf . one of the 14 conceived during an iui cycle ( 7.1 % ) , and 2 conceived during ici cycles ( 14.3 % ) , a difference that was not significant . the pregnancy rate per iui cycle was 1 / 42 ( 2.4 % ) , compared with 2 / 42 ( 4.8 % ) per ici cycle ( not significant ) . iui may be helpful in the management of infertility associated with relatively poor postcoital tests ( less than or equal to 3 motile sperm per hpf ) but not with relatively good postcoital tests ( greater than or equal to 5 motile sperm per hpf ) . 
a study of women requesting interval contraceptive sterilization who do and do not return for surgery . with the use of initial records of 1128 women who presented for interval tubal ligation , characteristics of those who were sterilized were juxtaposed with characteristics of those who did not return for surgery . follow-up telephone interviews were conducted to explore regret after sterilization among 268 sterilized women . the subsequent histories of 144 women who did not return for surgery were examined , to determine whether failure to return might have screened , selectively , the women at greatest risk of regret . high levels of subsequent unwanted conception and pregnancy wastage were found in the nonreturn group . institutional factors were often implicated in failure to return . variables available at initial presentation are proposed to identify women who risk adverse consequences of postponed sterilization , to facilitate return without increasing regret . 
undetected ovulation in in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer patients . a retrospective evaluation was done of 102 consecutive in in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer ( ivf-et ) treatment cycles that culminated in surgical intervention for oocyte pickup . in 35 % of these patients , a disparity was noted in the number of mature follicles present on the day of human chorionic gonadotropin administration , compared with the day of surgery . this suggests the occurrence of undetected ovulation . an endogenous luteinizing hormone ( lh ) surge was detected in 14 of these patients . another cohort showed evidence of early luteinization without a detected endogenous lh surge . finally , a group without early luteinization was defined . possible explanations for these outcomes and the implications for success of ivf-et are discussed . 
does cyclic human chorionic gonadotropin secretion indicate embryo loss in in vitro fertilization ? the human chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) beta subunit curve of normal singleton in vitro fertilization ( ivf ) pregnancies shows cyclic peaks during the first 56 days after embryo transfer ( et ) . this phenomenon is not demonstrable in normal spontaneous conceptions . the hcg curves of 151 singleton ivf pregnancies achieved by transfer of two , three , and four embryos therefore were compared statistically with the hcg curves of singleton ivf pregnancies achieved by transfer of only one embryo . the hcg levels of singleton ivf pregnancies achieved by transfer of more than one embryo had statistically higher hcg levels at 7 and 8 , 19 and 20 , and 37 and 38 days after et . in a separate evaluation it was observed that declines in hcg levels of normal singleton ivf pregnancies preceded four of five first-trimester abortion incidence peaks of singleton ivf pregnancies . the observed cyclic hcg secretion may be indicative of early embryo deaths . this observation supports the contention that multiple et results in significantly more multiple implantations than previously appreciated . thus embryo survival in utero may represent another major contributory factor to success or failure of ivf . 
the successful use of human amniotic fluid for mouse embryo culture and human in vitro fertilization , embryo culture , and transfer . the development of mouse and human embryos was assessed in human amniotic fluid to determine its suitability as a culture medium for human in vitro fertilization ( ivf ) . two-cell mouse embryos developed to blastocysts after 72 hours at rates similar to that in whittingham 's t6 + 10 % fetal calf serum . significantly more mouse embryos hatched in amniotic fluid . no difference was found between individual patient 's amniotic fluids obtained at 16 to 21 weeks ' gestation . a preliminary trial comparing amniotic fluid with t6 + maternal serum in human ivf showed no significant difference in fertilization rate and embryo development during 42 to 48 hours in vitro . expanded blastocysts were obtained in amniotic fluid after 5 days in vitro . four pregnancies were obtained in 9 patients ' transferred embryos grown in amniotic fluid and with 2 or 12 patients ' transferred embryos grown in t6 + maternal serum . 
factors influencing murine embryo bioassay : effects of proteins , aging of medium , and surgical glove coatings . the 2-cell murine embryo bioassay as quality control for human in vitro fertilization ( ivf ) was used to evaluate the effects of protein supplements , medium aging , and surgical glove coatings . ham 's f-10 medium ( gibco , grand island , ny ) without protein supplementation supported growth of the 2-cell embryos to blastocysts . addition of bovine serum albumin ( bsa ) , fetal cord serum ( fcs ) , or maternal serum ( ms ) did not enhance or reduce the blastulation rates ( medium alone , 89.4 % ; bsa , 86.4 % ; fcs , 90 % ; ms , 74.7 % ) . unsupplemented ham 's f-10 medium was found to contain three major peaks of approximately 50 , 000 daltons and several minor peaks , analyzed on high-performance liquid chromatography ( hplc ) and sodium sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis ( sds-page ) , suggesting the presence of protein ( s ) in the medium itself . the storing of medium up to 425 days at 4 degrees c affected neither the hplc profile nor its ability to support embryo growth ( blastulation rates : fresh , 84 % ; stored 150 to 425 days , 77.7 % ) . the coating of surgical gloves affected embryo growth . both talc-coated ( tc ) and " talc-free , " starch-coated ( sc ) surgical gloves were found to be progressively embryotoxic when they touched the medium for increasing lengths of time , compared with uncoated latex ( ul ) gloves and untouched control medium . quality control of medium preparation and handling in murine embryo bioassay is reemphasized , with requirements for protein supplementation , use of fresh medium , and possible contamination with even talc-free , sc surgical gloves reevaluated . 
in vitro recovery of human chorionic gonadotropin-stimulated cyclic adenosine 3 ' , 5'-monophosphate production in desensitized human granulosa-luteal cells . human granulosa-luteal cell production of cyclic adenosine 3 ' , 5'-monophosphate ( camp ) and progesterone ( p ) were studied in response to purified human chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) in cultured cells from hyperstimulated follicles of in vitro fertilized patients . the hcg injection given to the patients 36 hours before laparoscopy caused partial desensitization of adenylate cyclase of these cells to gonadotropins . preincubation of the cells in hormone free medium for 2 to 3 days significantly increased their camp responsiveness to hcg . p production was stimulated initially by hcg and showed no desensitization . in the cells preincubated for 72 hours without hcg , a subsequent stimulus of 50 ng / ml of hcg elicited maximal camp response , whereas 1 ng / ml of hcg was sufficient to bring about maximal p secretion . time-course studies indicated that maximal camp response to hcg was obtained in 1 to 3 hours . both basal and hcg-stimulated p accumulation continued to rise for up to 24 hours . preincubation of granulosa-luteal cells from hyperstimulated follicles improves the cells ' camp responsiveness to hcg , whereas p response remains unaltered . 
microsurgical epididymovasostomy in the treatment of occlusive azoospermia . in principle , azoospermia has two explanations : occlusion of the duct system and serious dysfunction of the testicular parenchyma . some cases of duct occlusion are suitable for reconstructive surgery . the authors describe a reconstructive technique based on full mobilization of a single loop of the epididymal duct as caudally as possible with two-layer side-to-end anastomosis to the vas deferens . to ensure follow-up evaluation of each anastomosis , unilateral anastomosis was done primarily . in a few cases , cross-over anastomosis was necessary . in cases of reoperation , if possible , this was performed on the same side . when the epididymal duct system was found empty , the contralateral epididymis was explored . patients with postoperative oligozoospermia were offered a supplementary contralateral operation . from 1980 to 1984 , 41 patients underwent epididymovasostomy . at follow-up evaluation , 35 ( 85 % ) presented sperms in repeated tests . fifteen of these patients ( 37 % ) have fathered children . patients with postoperative normospermia and no antisperm antibodies had an excellent fertility prognosis . the single-loop dissection technique provides anatomic specificity and a high percentage of patent anastomoses and does not interfere with the possibilities of reoperation . 
placental-type alkaline phosphatase in human seminal plasma from fertile and infertile men . solid-phase enzyme immunoassays , based on monoclonal antibodies reactive with different forms of human placental-type alkaline phosphatases , were applied to their detection in human seminal plasma from fertile and infertile men . the placental-like form of alkaline phosphatase ( plap-like ap ) , known to occur in testicular tissue , was found in normal seminal plasma . the incidence of detection and levels of this isoenzyme correlated significantly with the designated fertility status of the donor . seminal plasma ( plap-like ap ) may reflect germ cell function and / or access of testicular products to the ejaculate . 
enhancement of human sperm motility and velocity in vitro : effects of calcium and creatine phosphate . because of their roles in motility regulation and energy transport , calcium and creatine phosphate were examined for their effects on sperm motility and velocity in specimens of normal donors . semen or migrated sperm fractions were incubated with of 1 mmol of calcium , 5 mmol magnesium , and 10 mmol of creatine phosphate ( n = 28 ) or in the presence of 4 mumol of verapamil , calcium , and creatine phosphate ( n = 10 ) . the samples were subjected to multiple exposure photography ( four picture frames of two different drops ) at 0 , 1 , 4 , or 5 and at 10 hours and sperm motility and velocity were analyzed . in both calcium and calcium-creatine phosphate conditions , sperm motility and velocity were significantly increased , compared with control values ( p = between less than 0.001 and 0.05 ) . sperm motility declined following verapamil exposure , but the motility values remained at the level of the control in the presence of additional calcium or creatine phosphate . the effects of calcium and creatine phosphate take place rapidly ; within 1 minute all improvements in sperm velocity and motility are fully achieved . there is no loading effect of calcium , and when the sperm is transferred into media without the additional calcium , the velocity decreased to that of the initial control value . magnesium alone had no effect on motility or velocity . these experiments indicate that calcium or creatine phosphate can support sperm motility and velocity at a significantly increased level . thus the addition of calcium or creatine phosphate to the insemination media may enhance the fertilizing capacity of sperm during in vitro fertilization or gamete intrafallopian transfer procedures . 
the effect of treatment on experimentally produced endometrial peritoneal implants . endometriosis was induced surgically by implanting pieces of endometrium in the uterine mesenteries of 50 rats . their fertility was then assessed after various treatments . ten rats with endometriosis were treated with microsurgical excision of implants , 10 with high-frequency diathermy , 10 with danazol , and 10 with intraperitoneal indomethacin . ten more rats had implants that were left untreated . the results were compared with those of ten rats that had sham surgery with implantation of fat in the uterine mesenteries . reproductive performance was better in control animals with sham surgery than in animals with endometrial implants . maximum restoration of fertility was achieved with indomethacin . microsurgery and danazol therapy both were effective in preventing residual endometriosis , but the animals tended to be less fertile after treatment . adhesions were most pronounced after diathermy and least pronounced after microsurgery or indomethacin therapy . in rats treated with indomethacin , persistent endometriotic cysts were invariably smaller near the site of intraperitoneal injection : this suggests a local antiprostaglandin effect . 
transmission of chlamydia trachomatis by artificial insemination . 
subfascial dextran 70 collection after intraperitoneal instillation of hyskon . our patient developed a subfascial collection of dextran 70 after intraabdominal instillation of hyskon . seroma and wound dehiscence should be ruled out . a nonleaking peritoneal closure may decrease the incidence of this complication . a nonleaking fascial closure will decrease the extension of the dextran 70 collection and prevent separation of the skin . 
transcervical balloon tuboplasty . tbt is a new technique that by use of a balloon catheter technique in a fashion similar to that of balloon angioplasty allows reestablishment of tubal patency in selected cases of tubal occlusion . the case presented here describes the first transcervical dilatation and recanalization of a proximally occluded fallopian tube in a patient with infertility . 
tubal causes of ectopic pregnancy . we did complete histologic study on 148 gravid tubes and found that nearly 90 % showed chronic lesions . cs was the most frequent lesion encountered ( 95.5 % ) , followed by sin ( 32.6 % ) . most frequently the lesions were extensive and both the ampulla and isthmus were involved . we therefore question the conservative approach in the treatment of certain tps . 
tubal reanastomosis of a contralateral fallopian tube . 
clinical relevance of recent world health organization workshops on human sperm and trophoblast antigens [ letter ] 
open-ended vasectomy [ letter ] 
the determinants of successful surgery for proximal tubal disease [ editorial ] 
diagnostic considerations in virilization : iodomethyl-norcholesterol scanning in the localization of androgen secreting tumors . accurate localization of the source of androgen hypersecretion is critical to the appropriate surgical or medical management of women with virilization . seven patients with virilization and hyperandrogenism of various causes were evaluated with the use of sequential studies : testosterone stimulation and suppression tests ; computerized tomography ( ct ) ; selective venous catheterization ; and 131i-iodomethyl-norcholesterol ( np-59 ) scintigraphy . comparison of the diagnostic accuracies of these localization studies with the ultimate diagnoses in this group of virilized women showed that : endocrinologic suppression / stimulation studies are of limited value in tumor localization and helpful only in patients with steroidogenic enzyme deficiencies ; both selective catheterization and ct scanning may provide spurious localization data ; and np-59 scintigraphy , by depicting both the anatomic localization and functional androgen hypersecretion , may provide the most significant localization data in the evaluation of patients with virilizing syndromes . 
bromocriptine therapy in normoprolactinemic women with unexplained infertility and galactorrhea . forty-three women with unexplained infertility and 16 women who ovulated with clomiphene citrate therapy , yet failed to conceive , were evaluated because of the presence of expressible galactorrhea and normal random prolactin levels . the overall mean duration of infertility for these women was 5.68 + / - 0.33 years ( mean + / - standard error ) and their mean age was 30.20 + / - 0.46 years . fifty-two of these women had primary infertility . three treatment protocols were evaluated . twenty-five women with unexplained infertility ( group a ) received low-dose bromocriptine ( 1.25 to 2.5 mg ) at bedtime for the first 18 days of the cycle ; 18 women with unexplained infertility ( group b ) received 100 mg of pyridoxine continuously ; and 16 women receiving clomiphene citrate ( group c ) also received bromocriptine in a manner similar to that for group a . all subjects were followed for six treatment cycles or until pregnancy occurred . the estimated cumulative pregnancy rate after six treatment cycles was 65 % for groups a and c , which is significantly higher than the 22 % rate for group b ( lee-desu statistic = 4.66 , p = 0.03 ) . women treated with bromocriptine were 2.3 times more likely to conceive than women treated with pyridoxine . furthermore , those infertile galactorrheic women whose random prolactin level was greater than or equal to 15 ng / ml were most likely to conceive . expressible galactorrhea in women with unexplained infertility and high normal prolactin concentrations may serve as a clinical sign indicating those women who may benefit from low-dose bromocriptine treatment administered at bedtime . 
assessment of the potency of orally administered progestins in women . the effects of at least three doses of each of five orally administered progestins on estrogen-primed , postmenopausal endometrial biochemistry and morphologic features were analyzed . the progestins tested were norethindrone , medroxyprogesterone acetate ( mpa ) , norgestrel , dydrogesterone , and progesterone . the dose required to elicit responses similar to those seen in premenopausal , secretory endometria was assessed for each of the parameters measured , and the relative potencies were calculated . potencies , relative to a value of 1 for norethindrone , are l norgestrel 8 ( d / l norgestrel 4 ) , mpa 0.1 , dydrogesterone 0.02 , and progesterone 0.002 . the dose of norethindrone required to elicit secretory phase activity was about 0.35 mg / day . these values agree with published data obtained with the use of different methods ( delay of menstruation in premenopausal women , endometrial histologic features of estrogen-primed , ovariectomized women ) . 
plasminogen in peritoneal fluid : a possible nonsteroidal indicator of ovulation . plasminogen levels in peritoneal fluid were evaluated in 40 fertile women with regular ovulatory cycles . fifteen samples were obtained before ovulation and 25 samples after ovulation . plasminogen content and concentration in postovulatory peritoneal fluid was 0.84 + / - 0.10 mg and 6.1 + / - 0.57 mg / dl , respectively . these values were significantly higher than in the preovulatory peritoneal fluid , which were 0.36 + / - 0.12 mg ( p less than 0.005 ) and 3.5 + / - 0.33 mg / dl , ( p less than 0.001 ) , respectively . estradiol and progesterone ( p ) concentrations in peritoneal fluid were significantly higher after ovulation ( p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.01 , respectively ) . p concentration in serum and peritoneal fluid showed a linear correlation ( p less than 0.05 ) . peritoneal fluid plasminogen is significantly elevated after ovulation and may be a nonsteroidal marker for follicular rupture and oocyte extrusion . 
serum and peritoneal fluid proteins in women with and without endometriosis . we examined the proteins in serum and peritoneal fluid of women with endometriosis ( and of healthy controls ) for evidence of an autoimmune response that might account for their impaired fertility . no antibodies against endometrial glycoproteins or against " progestin dependent endometrial protein " ( pep ) were found in any serum or peritoneal fluid sample . levels of pep were not different in serum from women with moderate to severe endometriosis ( n = 6 ) , with mild endometriosis ( n = 21 ) , or from disease-free cycling controls ( n = 19 ) . pep levels in peritoneal fluid from mild endometriosis and from controls did not differ but were elevated ten times in fluid obtained in the secretory phase from women with moderate to severe disease . this suggests that pep levels in peritoneal fluid reflect the extent of ectopic endometrial growth . the salient finding was a heretofore undescribed protein ( mol wt 70 , 000 ) in secretory phase peritoneal fluid samples ( 18 / 20 ) and its absence during the proliferative phase ( 0 / 35 ) . 
prognostic factors influencing the pregnancy rate after microsurgical cornual anastomosis . eighty-two women with symmetric cornual blockage were selected for evaluation of the results of microsurgical anastomosis in relation to data from preoperative hysterosalpingography and histologic study of excised tubal specimens . serial sections from 164 occluded tubal portions were examined . the term pregnancy rate was 44 % . several prognostic factors influencing the postoperative pregnancy rate were revealed : maximized tubal length ; preserved intramural portion ; absence of chronic inflammation ; absence of tubal inclusion in the tubal wall ; and absence of tubal endometriosis . 
conservative laparoscopic treatment of 321 ectopic pregnancies . from 1974 to 1984 , 321 tubal pregnancies were treated conservatively with laparoscopic techniques . fifteen cases ( 4.8 % ) required a subsequent laparotomy or second laparoscopic procedure because of retained trophoblastic tissue . of 118 patients desiring subsequent pregnancy , 76 had an intrauterine pregnancy ( 64.4 % ) and 26 had a second ectopic pregnancy ( 22 % ) . eleven of 24 ( 45.8 % ) women attempting conception following conservative laparoscopic removal of an ectopic gestation from the sole remaining fallopian tube established an intrauterine pregnancy . in this same group , seven patients ( 29.2 % ) had a second ectopic pregnancy . the fertility results were also analyzed according to the previous history . the postoperative intrauterine pregnancy rate was 85.5 % among 62 patients without a history of infertility ( group i ) , compared with 41.1 % among 56 patients with a history of infertility or a previous ectopic pregnancy ( group ii ) . the subsequent ectopic pregnancy rate in group i was 16.1 % versus 28.6 % in group ii . this large series clearly demonstrates the relative safety and efficacy of conservative laparoscopic treatment of tubal pregnancies . 
sperm morphologic features as a prognostic factor in in vitro fertilization . to determine whether there is a prognostic value in the percentage normal sperm morphologic features in a human in vitro fertilization ( ivf ) program , the authors conducted a prospective study in women with bilateral tubal damage . based on the percentage of morphologically normal spermatozoa , the patients were divided into four groups : group i , normal morphologic features between 0 % and 14 % ; group ii , 15 % to 30 % ; group iii , 31 % to 45 % ; and group iv , 46 % to 60 % . one hundred ninety successful laparoscopic cycles were evaluated . in group i , 104 oocytes were obtained , of which 37 % fertilized , but no pregnancy resulted ; in group ii , 81 % of 324 oocytes were fertilized , with a pregnancy rate per embryo transfer ( et ) of 22 % ; in group iii , 82 % of 309 oocytes were fertilized , with a 31 % pregnancy rate ; and in group iv , 91 % of 69 oocytes were fertilized , with a pregnancy rate of 12 % . probability models indicated that there was a clear threshold in normal sperm morphologic features at 14 % , with high fertilization and pregnancy rate in the groups with normal sperm morphologic features greater than 14 % . 
a simple and effective technique for increasing pregnancy rates in couples with retrograde ejaculation . seven of 12 patients with retrograde ejaculation , who had at least occasional samples with reasonable sperm numbers and motility , underwent a protocol including luteinizing hormone-timed , intrauterine insemination with washed sperm recovered from the urine . seven pregnancies have occurred to date in six patients ; the one other patient is still early in the protocol period . the described technique for collecting sperm , ovulation timing , sperm recovery , and washing and intrauterine insemination are relatively simple and cost-effective and appear to be effective in contributing to pregnancies in many couples with retrograde ejaculation . 
a factor inhibiting ovum capture by the oviductal fimbriae present in endometriosis peritoneal fluid . the cumulus-fimbria interaction was investigated in vitro with endometriosis peritoneal fluid ( pf ) . on the oviductal fimbria of the golden hamster , incubated with endometriosis and nonendometriosis pf and culture medium 199 contained 4 % bovine serum albumin ( control ) , was placed the mouse oocyte-cumulus complex at 5-minute intervals for 60 to 70 minutes . incubation periods until the loss of fimbrial capability of ovum capture ( ovum capturability disappearance time [ ocdt ] ) were 23.3 + / - 2.7 ( standard error of the mean ) , 51.7 + / - 2.9 , and 61.3 + / - 0.9 minutes with endometriosis , nonendometriosis pf , and control , respectively . ocdt was significantly decreased with cell-free and ultrafiltrated endometriosis pf containing a molecular size greater than 100 , 000 ( 26.0 + / - 2.8 and 26.1 + / - 2.5 minutes , respectively ) . a factor inhibiting fimbrial capability of ovum capture is present in endometriosis pf . 
a new stirrable catheter for gamete intrafallopian tube transfer ( gift ) . cannulation of the fimbriated end of the fallopian tube during gamete intrafallopian tube transfer ( gift ) may be at times extremely difficult and even require minilaparotomy . an ideal laparoscopic gift catheter should be flexible and stirrable , have a small diameter , and yet be sturdy enough to enable its manipulation . such a catheter was developed in collaboration with cook ob / gyne , a division of cook inc . , indiana , with primary emphasis on easy laparoscopic manipulation . its use in eight attempts of gift resulted in three pregnancies ( 37 % ) . 
inhibin concentration in the culture media of human oocyte-cumulus-corona cell complexes is not related to subsequent embryo cleavage . we have demonstrated an in vitro secretion of inhibin by human occc , not related to subsequent egg cleavage . a putative signal , released by occc , that could modulate inhibin secretion by granulosa cells has not been discovered . inhibin secretion by occc has no predictive value concerning the further fertilization and cleavage of the oocytes . 
empty follicle syndrome . four patients who had no oocytes retrieved during an ivf cycle were studied in an attempt to identify predictors of such an occurrence and suggestions for its cause . all 30 follicles aspirated in five cycles in these four women yielded no oocytes . one patient had two cycles that produced no eggs . the empty follicle syndrome may represent a new syndrome and a cause of infertility . 
ureteral abnormalities in women with endometriosis . high-volume intravenous urography was performed in 63 women with surgically proven endometriosis . subtle abnormalities were found in 15.9 % of these women . no patient had urologic symptoms , and there was no evidence of hydroureter or ureteral obstruction on the ivp . long-term follow-up study will be required to determine whether or not these lesions will progress and cause ureteral obstruction . 
successful treatment of oligospermic and azoospermic men with alpha 1-blocker and beta-stimulator : new treatment for idiopathic male infertility . we studied the effect of oral administration of alpha 1-blocker and beta-stimulator on 20 idiopathically infertile men . bunazosin ( alpha 1-blocker , 2 mg / day ) and procaterol ( beta-stimulator , 100 micrograms / day ) were given orally twice daily for 5 months . the administration of alpha 1-blocker and beta-stimulator elicited an increase in sperm output and seminal volume in 16 patients ( 80 % ) . the increase in sperm output seems to be associated with relaxations of myoid cells , which lead to dilatation of stenotic areas of seminiferous tubules , occurring discontinuously , and subsequent maintenance of good tubular fluid flow . no adverse effects were observed in this series . 
blood transfusions in habitual abortion [ letter ] 
sex ratio and male clomiphene treatment [ letter ] 
serial observations of colonic carcinogenesis in the rat . premalignant mucosa binds ulex europeus agglutinin . we evaluated certain histochemical tests for their ability to detect premalignant mucosa in the dimethylhydrazine model of colonic carcinogenesis . biweekly colonoscopic biopsies of the descending colon were performed for 29 wk in control and dimethylhydrazine-treated rats . biopsy specimens of the splenic flexure , rectum , and any visualized tumors were taken . the specimens were stained with periodic acid-schiff to detect neutral mucins , high-iron diamine alcian blue to detect sialylated and sulfated mucins , fluoresceinated peanut agglutinin , and fluoresceinated ulex europeus agglutinin . none of the first three tests consistently detected premalignant mucosa . however , ulex europeus agglutinin , which bound to only 3 % of control biopsy specimens throughout the course of the study , bound to increasing numbers of biopsy specimens in the dimethylhydrazine-treated animals , reaching a maximum of 90 % positivity by 13-16 wk . moreover , ulex europeus agglutinin bound strongly to all biopsy specimens from tissues adjacent to tumors and to 93 % of tumors . mucosal atrophy and focal dysplasia were present more frequently in specimens taken from the rectum ( but not the splenic flexure ) of dimethylhydrazine-treated animals than of control animals , but there was no correlation between the histochemical markers and either atrophy or dysplasia . we conclude that ulex europeus agglutinin binding is a consistent feature of premalignant colonic mucosa in dimethylhydrazine-treated rats . 
calcium channel blockers protect against ethanol- and indomethacin-induced gastric lesions in rats . the current studies were designed to investigate the effect of calcium channel blockers on chemically induced gastric lesions in rats . results of this study indicate that pretreatment of male f344 rats with the calcium channel blockers verapamil , diltiazem , or mg2+ significantly protected against ethanol- and indomethacin-induced gastric lesions as demonstrated by gross and histopathologic evaluation . treatment of rats with calcium channel blockers before ethanol or indomethacin administration resulted in a significant decline in the mean number of lesions per glandular stomach , the damaged area of the glandular stomach , and the severity of lesions . calcium channel blockers also caused a significant decline in the incidence of indomethacin-induced gastric lesions , but had no effect on the incidence of ethanol-induced gastric lesions . these results offer the first evidence that calcium channel blockers may play an important role in the protection against chemically induced gastric lesions and thereby offer insight into the mechanism of gastric ulcer formation . it is speculated that this knowledge may prove important in the development of new and improved therapies for the treatment and prevention of gastric ulcers in humans . 
gastrointestinal features of culture-positive yersinia enterocolitica infection . yersinia enterocolitica was cultured from feces of 122 symptomatic adults in a single facility using selective culture media ; all isolates were confirmed in an independent reference laboratory . of 128 isolates , multiple serotypes were defined and all were biochemically typical for yersinia enterocolitica . other agents were seen in 20 patients ; of these , seven were yersinia fredriksenii and six were clostridium difficile . diarrhea ( 80 % ) and abdominal pain ( 64 % ) were common , whereas other features such as fever ( 9 % ) and bloody stools ( 8 % ) were unusual . use of antibiotics ( 24 % ) or opiates ( 28 % ) in the month before culture was common . the terminal ileum was seen radiographically in 20 patients , but only two barium studies showed abnormalities . fiberoptic endoscopy and biopsy studies , done in greater than 50 % of the cases , showed minimal or no changes in most patients . however , 3 patients had pseudomembranous colitis with concomitant clostridium difficile cytotoxin and 7 had diffuse severe colitis . new culture techniques , and possibly geographic differences , have contributed to the high isolation rates of this organism . yersinia enterocolitica occurs sporadically , involves a variety of serotypes , and is associated with a broader clinical spectrum than was formerly appreciated . 
barrett 's esophagus . a prevalent , occult complication of gastroesophageal reflux disease . a prospective study of patients with symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux was undertaken to determine the prevalence of barrett 's esophagus and reevaluate the diagnostic approach necessary to detect this complication . endoscopy with mucosal biopsy was performed in 97 subjects . twelve ( 12.4 % ) were found to have barrett 's esophagus . the sensitivity and specificity of the endoscopic and radiologic examinations for barrett 's esophagus were prospectively evaluated . endoscopy ( 92 % ) was significantly more sensitive than radiology ( 24 % ) in detecting barrett 's esophagus ( p less than 0.001 ) . the frequency and severity of reflux symptoms among patients determined to have barrett 's esophagus , reflux esophagitis , or normal esophageal biopsies were quantitatively similar in all three groups , except for significantly greater daytime heartburn in those with reflux esophagitis ( p less than 0.01 ) . these data indicate that barrett 's esophagus complicates gastroesophageal reflux more often than previously believed . 
role of nonpancreatic lipolytic activity in exocrine pancreatic insufficiency . patients with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency may absorb greater than 50 % of dietary fat despite the absence of measurable pancreatic lipase activity . nonpancreatic lipolytic activity was measured in gastric and duodenal aspirates from 5 patients with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency secondary to alcoholism and in aspirates from 5 alcoholics without evidence of exocrine pancreatic dysfunction ( controls ) . samples were collected under fasting and postprandial conditions . all patients with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency had nonpancreatic lipolytic activity in gastric and duodenal aspirates . lipolytic activity in gastric aspirates was not significantly different between the patients with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and the controls during the fasting and postprandial periods . pancreatic insufficiency was associated with significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) higher nonpancreatic lipolytic activity in the duodenum under fasting conditions . no significant difference between the groups was found in postprandial nonpancreatic lipolytic activity . nonpancreatic lipolytic activity accounted for approximately 90 % of total lipolytic activity at the ligament of treitz in patients with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency as opposed to 7 % in the control subjects . these observations suggest a significant role for nonpancreatic lipolytic activity ( lingual lipase and gastric lipase ) in fat digestion in patients with pancreatic insufficiency secondary to chronic alcohol abuse . 
ethanol-induced damage to mucosal capillaries of rat stomach . ultrastructural features and effects of prostaglandin f2 beta and cysteamine . impairment of the mucosal microcirculation may contribute to ethanol-induced gastric mucosal damage . in this report , we describe diffuse and severe ultrastructural damage to the capillaries of the gastric glandular mucosa of the rat that occurred within 1 min after intragastric instillation of 100 % ethanol . there was a gradient of damage in that endothelial cell structure was most severely disrupted in profiles of capillaries located close to the luminal surface but some morphologic evidence of damage was evident in the wall of capillary profiles to a mean depth of 256 micron . capillary structure was generally normal in the deeper regions of the mucosa . pretreatment with intragastric cysteamine , 30 mg / 100 g , or intragastric prostaglandin f2 beta , 0.5 mg / 100 g , significantly reduced the depth in the mucosa to which damage to capillaries extended . pretreatment with intragastric prostaglandin f2 beta , 0.2 mg / 100 g , afforded no significant protection . we conclude that a 1-min exposure to 100 % ethanol induces striking damage to the microcirculation of glandular mucosa of the rat stomach with severe damage to capillary profiles near the lumen and sparing of capillary profiles near the muscularis mucosa , and pretreatment with the sulfhydryl agent , cysteamine , or with a large dose of prostaglandin f2 beta reduces the extent of but does not abolish ethanol-induced damage to gastric mucosal capillaries . 
identification and mechanism of delayed esophageal acid clearance in subjects with hiatus hernia . to determine if hiatus hernia ( hh ) contributes to the delayed clearance of acid from the esophagus in patients with gastroesophageal reflux ( ger ) , we performed simultaneous esophageal ph recordings and radionuclide studies in three study populations : 12 ger patients with hh , 5 ger patients with no hh , and 8 subjects with hh but no ger symptoms . acid clearance was measured at 5 cm . above the manometrically located lower esophageal sphincter ( les ) after injecting a 15-ml . bolus of 0.1 n hcl at 15 cm . above the les . the acid was labeled with 200 mu ci of 99mtc-sulfur colloid . acid clearance was also measured at 10 cm . above the les after injection of a 15-ml . bolus of 0.1 n hcl at 20 cm . above the les . acid clearance at 5 cm . above the les was faster in ger patients with no hh compared to ger patients with hh and asymptomatic hh subjects . acid clearance was faster at 10 cm . than 5 cm . above the les in all hh and non-hh subjects studied . in non-hh subjects , each swallow resulted in an increase in ph ( a monophasic ph response ) at 5 and 10 cm . above the les . in symptomatic as well as asymptomatic hh subjects , swallows resulted in an initial fall followed by a rise in ph at 5 cm . above the les ( a biphasic ph response ) . radionuclide studies showed reflux of the isotope-labeled acid into the esophagus followed by clearance ( a biphasic response ) accompanying swallows in 15 of the 20 hh subjects . swallow-induced reflux was not detected by radionuclide scanning in non-hh subjects . based on these observations , we conclude that during acid clearance a small amount of acid is trapped in the hh sac and refluxes into the esophagus during subsequent swallows when there is relaxation of the les , and these repeated episodes of acid reflux from the hh account for the delayed acid clearance observed in ger patients with hh . 
effect of peptide chain length on absorption of egg protein hydrolysates in the normal human jejunum . the influence of the peptide chain length of partial enzymic hydrolysates of protein on nitrogen and amino acid absorption was studied in 12 subjects using a jejunal perfusion technique . three hydrolysates of egg white and an equivalent amino acid mixture were perfused at 30 mmol / l and 100 mmol / l in two separate experiments . two hydrolysates ( oh1 and oh2 ) contained mainly dipeptides and tripeptides , whereas the third ( oh3 ) comprised tripeptide to pentapeptides as judged chromatographically . nitrogen absorption was significantly slower from the higher chain length mixture , oh3 , than from the short chain mixtures , oh1 and oh2 , at both concentrations . similarly , several amino acid residues were absorbed less well from oh3 than from oh1 and oh2 . these data demonstrate that the chain length of heterogeneous mixtures of peptides affects absorption of nitrogen and individual amino acid residues , and suggest that brush border hydrolysis of tetrapeptides and pentapeptides limits absorption from enzymic hydrolysates of protein which simulate the composition of the postprandial luminal contents . 
immunochemical , electrophoretic , and genetic heterogeneity of pepsinogen i . characterization with monoclonal antibodies . two immunologic subclasses of human pepsinogen i alpha-pg i and beta-pg i , have been identified based on their reactivity toward a murine monoclonal antibody that recognizes an epitope on the alpha-pg i isozymogens . the antibody was used to purify the major alpha- and beta-isozymogens from gastric mucosa and to determine their contributions to the previously described genetic polymorphism of pg i . the alpha-epitope was localized to the pepsin region of the molecules . the two major alpha-pg i isozymogens ( pg 3 alpha and pg 5 alpha ) and the major beta-pg i isozymogen ( pg 4 beta ) were demonstrated to contain net charge differences located in the respective pepsin and activation peptide regions . we propose that the alpha- and beta-subclasses contain net charge amino acid substitutions encoded by the corresponding pepsinogen genes : pga3 , pga4 , and pga5 . 
studies of the prevalence and significance of radiolabeled bile acid malabsorption in a group of patients with idiopathic chronic diarrhea . we studied radiolabeled fecal bile acid excretion in 11 normal subjects and 17 patients with idiopathic chronic diarrhea for three major purposes : to establish normal values for this test in the presence of increased stool volumes ( induced in normal subjects by ingestion of poorly absorbable solutions ) ; to test for bile acid malabsorption in the patients and to correlate this with an independent test of ileal function , the schilling test ; and to compare the results of the bile acid excretion test with the subsequent effect of a bile acid binding agent ( cholestyramine ) on stool weight . in normal subjects fecal excretion of the radiolabel was increased with increasing stool volumes . as a group , patients with idiopathic chronic diarrhea excreted radiolabeled bile acid more rapidly than normal subjects with induced diarrhea ( t1 / 2 56 + / - 8 vs . 236 + / - 60 h , respectively , p less than 0.005 ) . there was a statistically significant positive correlation between t1 / 2 of radiolabeled bile acid and schilling test results in these patients . although 14 of 17 patients absorbed labeled taurocholic acid less well than any of the normal subjects with comparable volumes of induced diarrhea , cholestyramine had no statistically significant effect on stool weight in the patient group , and in none of the patients was stool weight reduced to within the normal range . in summary , most patients with idiopathic chronic diarrhea have bile acid malabsorption ( as measured by fecal excretion of labeled bile acid ) , but they do not respond to cholestyramine therapy with a significant reduction in stool weight . although the significance of these findings was not clearly established , the most likely interpretation is that bile acid malabsorption is a manifestation of an underlying intestinal motility or absorptive defect rather than the primary cause of diarrhea . 
effect of cisapride on gastric emptying of indigestible solids in patients with gastroparesis diabeticorum . a comparison with metoclopramide and placebo . cisapride is a prokinetic agent believed to facilitate acetylcholine release from the myenteric plexus of the gut . the effect of cisapride on gastric emptying of solids was studied in 9 diabetic patients , all of whom had delayed gastric emptying of indigestible solids ( gastroparesis ) . six patients had chronic nausea and vomiting , and 3 had no symptoms . cisapride ( 5 mg ) was given intravenously 15 min before ingestion of a 400-kcal test meal and 10 indigestible solid radiopaque markers . on separate days and in random order each patient also received intravenous metoclopramide ( 10 mg ) or placebo 15 min before ingestion of the meal and markers . mean gastric emptying of radiopaque markers , assessed by serial radiographs of the gastric region , was accelerated by metoclopramide and cisapride , but the difference reached significance only with cisapride ( p less than 0.05 ) . there was considerable intersubject variability in gastric emptying responses to cisapride and metoclopramide . no side effects occurred with either drug . this study indicates that acute , intravenous administration of cisapride accelerates gastric emptying of indigestible solids in patients with diabetic gastroparesis . 
regional and cellular heterogeneity of cholecystokinin receptors mediating muscle contraction in the gut [ published erratum appears in gastroenterology 1987 jun ; 92 ( 6 ) : 2055 ] the contractile action of cholecystokinin ( cck ) on smooth muscle of the gut is either direct ( gallbladder and gastric fundus ) or both direct and neurally mediated ( small intestine ) . these regional differences were used to characterize pharmacologically cck receptors on smooth muscle cells and neurons of the gastric fundus , gallbladder , and ileum of the guinea pig . in circular and longitudinal ileal smooth muscle , tetrodotoxin was used to separate direct from neurally mediated contractile effects . cholecystokinin receptors on smooth muscle cells were found in all locations . the muscle cells displayed a decreasing order of sensitivity to the c-terminal octapeptide of cholecystokinin as expressed in the median doses , and to the selective cholecystokinin antagonist , proglumide , as expressed in the inhibitory dissociation constants . the median doses of the octapeptide of cholecystokinin ranged from 5.5 nm in gallbladder muscle to 185 nm in circular ileal muscle ; the corresponding inhibitory dissociation constants of proglumide ranged from 180 to 437 microm [ corrected ] . cholecystokinin receptors on cholinergic neurons were confined to circular and longitudinal ileal muscle ; the neurons were 80-300 times more sensitive to the octapeptide of cholecystokinin ( d50 's 0.5 and 2.3 nm ) than the corresponding muscle cells , and 19-21 times more sensitive to proglumide ( inhibitory dissociation constants , 20 microm [ corrected ] ) . the results provide clear evidence of cellular heterogeneity of cholecystokinin receptors ( i.e. , difference in sensitivity between muscle cells and neurons from the same location ) as well as regional heterogeneity ( i.e. , difference in sensitivity between muscle cells from various locations ) . 
colonoscopy in inflammatory bowel disease . diagnostic accuracy and proposal of an endoscopic score . colonoscopy is used in the differential diagnosis of inflammatory bowel disease but its accuracy and the " weight " of the various endoscopic signs have not been assessed . in a prospective study 357 patients with 606 colonoscopies , in whom the endoscopic appearances were those of ulcerative colitis , crohn 's colitis , or indeterminate colitis , were followed-up for an average period of 22 mo . a final , definite , endoscopy-independent diagnosis was reached by means of autopsy , surgery , or histology on biopsy in 71 % of patients . accuracy of colonoscopy was 89 % , with 4 % errors and 7 % indeterminate diagnoses . errors were more frequent in severe inflammatory activity ( 9 % ) . the most useful endoscopic features in this differential diagnosis were discontinuous involvement , anal lesions , and cobblestoning of mucosa for crohn 's disease , and erosions or microulcers and granularity for ulcerative colitis . after selecting the endoscopic features with best predictive value , an " endoscopic score " was calculated by means of " likelihood ratios . " 
correlation of hepatitis b virus dna and antigens in the liver . a study in chronic liver disease . hepatitis b virus deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) and antigens ( hbsag and hbcag ) were studied in liver biopsy specimens from 105 hbsag-positive patients with chronic liver diseases . free or integrated viral dna , or both , was detected in 83 of 105 ( 79 % ) patients , whereas hbsag and hbcag were demonstrated immunohistologically in 96 ( 91 % ) and 39 ( 37 % ) , respectively . of 60 patients with detectable free viral dna , 38 ( 63 % ) were positive for hbcag , whereas only 1 of 45 ( 2 % ) with either integrated viral dna alone ( n = 23 ) or no detectable viral dna ( n = 22 ) was positive for hbcag ( p less than 0.001 ) . furthermore , the amount of hbcag was positively correlated with the amount of free viral dna in the liver tissue . in contrast , hbsag was well expressed not only in the liver with free viral dna , but also in the liver with integrated dna . these data suggest that the synthesis of hbcag is primarily directed by free viral dna , whereas that of hbsag may be directed by free as well as integrated viral dnas . 
hepatic uptake of sex steroids in men with alcoholic cirrhosis . we attempted to determine to what extent the degree of liver function impairment might affect the hepatic uptake and , as a consequence , alter the systemic plasma levels of endogenous sex steroids in male patients with alcoholic cirrhosis . the plasma levels and hepatic uptake of the steroids dehydroepiandrosterone , androstenedione , testosterone , dihydrotestosterone , estrone , estradiol , progesterone , and 17-hydroxyprogesterone were assessed . systemic plasma levels of testosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone were significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) reduced , whereas those of androstenedione , estrone , and estradiol were significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) elevated in men with alcoholic cirrhosis when compared to controls . sex hormone binding globulin levels were also significantly elevated ( p less than 0.01 ) . the hepatic uptake of sex steroids depended on the degree of liver function impairment as shown by the linear significant relationship between their hepatic extractions and that of indocyanine green ( r = 0.74-0.92 , p less than 0.05 ; except for dihydrotestosterone , r = 0.17 , not significant ) . in addition , the hepatic uptake of sex steroids depended on the binding affinity to sex hormone binding globulin . the higher the affinity for sex hormone binding globulin , the lower the hepatic uptake influenced by liver function impairment . it was estimated that hepatic clearances accounted for only 20 % -50 % of the metabolic clearance of sex steroids . no significant relationship between plasma levels of sex steroids and their hepatic clearance was found . we show here that in alcoholic cirrhosis the extent of hepatic uptake of sex steroids depends partly on the degree of liver function impairment and partly on the degree to which they are bound to sex hormone binding globulin . production rate or peripheral metabolism , or both , rather than hepatic uptake alone may account for the altered circulating levels of sex steroids . 
prognosis of alcoholic cirrhosis in the presence and absence of alcoholic hepatitis . liver biopsy specimens ( 178 percutaneous and 39 transjugular ) were assessed from 217 consecutive patients with alcoholic liver disease , 77 noncirrhotics and 140 cirrhotics , whose cases were followed for 5 yr . cirrhotic patients were categorized into two groups , with and without " hepatitis " using a criteria to define " hepatitis " that included only degrees of inflammation , necrosis , and mallory bodies that had a prognostic weight in terms of mortality in 1 yr . this classification resulted in a sharp separation between a group of 42 patients with cirrhosis without " hepatitis " and with low mortality , both at 1 yr ( 7.1 % + / - 4.0 % ) and at 5 yr ( 31 % + / - 7 % ) , and another group of 98 patients with cirrhosis and " hepatitis " and a high mortality both at 1 yr ( 26.5 % + / - 4.5 % , p less than 0.01 ) , and at 5 yr ( 47 % + / - 5 % , p less than 0.02 ) . importantly , the 1-yr mortality in patients with cirrhosis and no " hepatitis " was not statistically different from that of patients with no cirrhosis or " hepatitis " ( most of whom had only fatty liver ) both at 1 yr ( 6.9 % + / - 3.3 % ) and at 5 yr ( 24 % + / - 6 % ) . there were marked differences in several variables between cirrhosis with and without " hepatitis " [ combined clinical and laboratory index : no " hepatitis " : 4.9 + / - 0.7 , with " hepatitis " : 7.8 + / - 0.5 , p less than 0.01 ; score of collagen in space of disse : no " hepatitis " : 2.1 + / - 0.4 , with " hepatitis " : 3.7 + / - 0.3 , p less than 0.01 ; hepatocyte cross-sectional surface area : no " hepatitis " : 682 + / - 51 micron 2 , with " hepatitis " : 841 + / - 31 micron 2 , p less than 0.01 ] . these findings were more severe in the transjugular group than in the percutaneous group . collagen in the space of disse and hepatocyte surface area were not statistically different when cirrhosis without " hepatitis " was compared with a similar no " hepatitis " group of patients having noncirrhotic alcoholic liver disease . in this patient sample the presence of parenchymal nodules and fibrous septa , per se , did not result in an increase in mortality with respect to alcoholic patients without cirrhosis and with no " hepatitis . " 
sustained remission after corticosteroid therapy of severe hepatitis b surface antigen-negative chronic active hepatitis . to determine the frequency of a sustained remission and to assess the long-term prognosis of relapse and retreatment , 66 patients with severe hepatitis b surface antigen-negative chronic active hepatitis and prolonged follow-up after initial corticosteroid withdrawal ( mean , 10 + / - 0.4 yr ) were evaluated . selection of patients was made from among 206 cases of severe disease . twenty-four patients ( 36 % ) sustained remission for at least 5 yr ( mean , 11 + / - 0.6 yr ) after initial therapy , and 42 ( 64 % ) relapsed and were retreated . patients who sustained remission had shorter durations of illness before therapy ( 8 + / - 1 vs . 14 + / - 2 mo , p less than 0.05 ) and they had greater laboratory improvements during treatment . the frequencies of cirrhosis and death were not significantly greater in patients who relapsed . of the 42 patients who relapsed , 9 ( 21 % ) ultimately entered a sustained remission after retreatment . remission for at least 5 yr was possible in 33 of the 66 patients ( 50 % ) . major drug complications developed more commonly in those who relapsed and required retreatment ( 59 % vs . 29 % , p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that 50 % of patients who enter remission during initial therapy may ultimately achieve a sustained remission , especially if their disease is of short duration and adequately suppressed during treatment . relapse does not affect long-term prognosis , but retreatment is associated with more side effects . 
chronic ischemic gastritis reversed after revascularization operation . a patient with severe chronic gastritis and duodenitis that clinically and endoscopically disappeared after an intestinal revascularization procedure is reported . chronic intestinal ischemia appears to be a cause of gastritis as seen in this patient . 
polypoid synovial sarcoma of the esophagus . pure sarcomas of the esophagus are exceedingly rare . we report a case of esophageal synovial sarcoma which occurred in an adolescent . the tumor was locally resected , sparing the patient esophagectomy . after postoperative radiation therapy , the patient remains alive and well without evidence of disease 28 mo after operation . the unique nature of polypoid sarcoma of the esophagus , and the potential for cure without esophagectomy , is discussed . 
sex steroid receptors in the stomach , liver , pancreas , and gastrointestinal tract of the baboon . sex steroids have been shown to have a marked effect on the physiologic activities of the liver and the gastrointestinal tract . we performed autoradiographic studies using [ 3h ] estradiol and [ 3h ] dihydrotestosterone on male and female baboons for the purpose of identifying estrogen or androgen receptors , or both , in the liver , pancreas , stomach , and small and large intestines of baboons . evidence for the presence of estrogen and androgen receptors was made apparent by high concentrations of silver grains over the nuclei of the cells of these tissues . androgen receptors were largely confined to the nuclei of the smooth muscle cells of the tunica muscularis of the gut wall and the connective tissue interstitial cells of the liver , pancreas , stomach , and intestines . estrogen receptors were prominent in the nuclei of the vascular smooth muscle cells in the liver , pancreas , gut , and the majority of the endocrine islet cells . these observations suggest that a variety of different cell types of the liver , pancreas , and gastrointestinal tract contain estrogen and androgen receptors that might modulate their cellular activities and influence several different physiologic processes . 
mesenteric vein thrombosis as presenting manifestation of hereditary protein s deficiency . protein s deficiency is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait . heterozygotes with a reduction of 50 % in the plasma protein s concentration are at risk for the development of venous thromboembolism , often occurring at an early age without an apparent cause . in the majority of the patients thrombosis is restricted to the superficial or deep venous system of the legs . in this case report we describe the presence of mesenteric vein thrombosis in a 30-yr-old man with hereditary protein s deficiency . in his family protein s deficiency was also recognized in his mother , brother , and niece . both his mother and brother had a history of thrombotic disease . 
evaluation of procedural skills in gastroenterologists [ editorial ] 
another treatment for primary biliary cirrhosis [ editorial ] 
efficacy of udca in treating bile reflux gastritis [ letter ] 
somatosensory evoked potentials in hepatic encephalopathy [ letter ] 
immune deficiency and primary biliary cirrhosis [ letter ] 
selective iga deficiency and primary biliary cirrhosis [ letter ] 
importance of adequate controls in experimental design [ letter ] 
linear gastric erosion associated with diaphragmatic hernia [ letter ] 
amiodarone-induced lysosomal inclusions in primary cultures of human hepatocytes [ letter ] 
gallbladder emptying response to sham feeding [ letter ] 
99mtc-sulfur colloid studies in hepatic hydrothorax [ letter ] 
severe hepatic failure after ara-a-prednisolone for chronic type b hepatitis [ letter ] 
simplified assessment of segmental colonic transit . transit times of radiopaque markers through the human gut were measured by published techniques and compared with a simplified method . three sets of distinctive markers were ingested by 24 healthy persons on 3 successive days . in the first part of the study , daily abdominal x-rays were taken and individual stools were collected for radiography . mouth-to-anus transits were assessed from the fecal output of markers and mean colonic and segmental colonic transits were calculated from the daily radiographs . these established methods were then compared with estimates of total colonic and segmental transits based on a single abdominal film , taken on the fourth day . the single-film technique correlated well with values obtained from the previous , but more inconvenient , methods . using the simpler approach , colonic transit was assessed in 49 additional healthy subjects , for a total group of 73. total colonic transit was 35.0 + / - 2.1 h ( mean + / - se ) ; segmental transits was 11.3 + / - 1.1 h for the right colon , 11.4 + / - 1.4 h for the left colon , and 12.4 + / - 1.1 h for the rectosigmoid . men had significantly shorter transits for the whole colon than did women ( p less than 0.05 ) , and this difference was apparent to some extent in the right ( p = 0.06 ) and left colon ( p = 0.07 ) but not in the rectosigmoid . age did not influence transit significantly nor did a small dose of supplemental fiber . the technique is simple , convenient for clinical usage , and reduces the exposure to radiation to acceptable levels . there should be a role for this approach in the evaluation of colonic transit in selected patients . 
prostaglandin regulation of colonic blood flow in rabbit colitis . human and experimental colitis are associated with release of both vasoconstrictor and vasodilator eicosanoids . to determine the pattern of colonic blood flow in vivo and the role of prostaglandins and thromboxanes , immune complex-mediated colitis and delayed hypersensitivity-mediated colitis were induced in rabbits . organ blood flow was determined in conscious animals by radiolabeled microspheres before and after cyclooxygenase or thromboxane synthetase inhibition . colonic blood flow was twofold higher in colitis than in control animals . thromboxane synthetase inhibition with dazoxiben caused a slight further increase of colon perfusion in animals with colitis , but thromboxane receptor blockade had no effect . prostaglandin inhibition with indomethacin and ibuprofen did not affect blood flow in controls , but in animals with colitis these drugs markedly reduced colonic blood flow to the level of control animals . the data demonstrate that vasodilatory prostaglandins enhance colonic blood flow in acute colon inflammation . 
adherence to and penetration of the intestinal epithelium by reovirus type 1 in neonatal mice . in 10-day-old suckling and adult mice , reovirus type 1 adheres selectively to and penetrates membranous epithelial ( m ) cells . to determine when m cells first appear , when they first transport reovirus , and if reovirus adheres to and is endocytosed by other epithelial cells in the first postnatal week , we examined neonatal mouse intestine by transmission electron microscopy after reovirus type 1 exposure . at 2 days m cells accounted for 0.9 % of dome epithelial cells . by 9 days m cells had increased to 7.4 % . reovirus type 1 adherence to the surface of villus and dome epithelial cells showed marked variation in 2-6-day-old animals , but by 7 days only a few absorptive cell profiles had adherent reovirus . adherence to greater than 50 % of m-cell profiles occurred in all but 2 animals , but adherence to the majority of peyer 's patch absorptive cell profiles was present only in some 4- and 5-day-old animals . adherence to a majority of undifferentiated cell profiles occurred in some animals at all ages . membranous epithelial cells endocytosed reovirus at all ages but only at 2 days did rare villus and dome absorptive cells endocytose reovirus into the apical cytoplasm . thus , adherence of reovirus to the apical surface of mucosal epithelial cells is nonselective in newborn mice but becomes more selective within the first postnatal week with adherence by day 7 to most m-cell profiles , to a substantial but variable number of undifferentiated cell profiles , but to few absorptive cell profiles . 
spectral analysis of tachygastria recorded during motion sickness . the purpose of the present experiment was to study frequency changes in gastric myoelectric activity of healthy human subjects and the development of symptoms of motion sickness as brought about by vection or illusory self-motion . fifteen fasted healthy human subjects were seated inside a circular vection drum , the rotation of which produces visual signals of self-motion that are in conflict with vestibular signals ( i.e. , mismatched sensory input ) . an electrogastrogram was obtained for three 15-min . periods : baseline , rotation , and after drum rotation stopped . respiration , symptoms volunteered by subjects , and a continuous measure of intensity of symptoms were recorded . five subjects showed a continuation of normal 3-cycles / min . activity during drum rotation and reported no symptoms of motion sickness . ten subjects showed a shift of their dominant gastric frequency from 3 cycles / min . to 4-9 cycles / min . during drum rotation and reported symptoms of motion sickness . running spectral analysis revealed a close correspondence over time between tachygastria and reports of symptoms of motion sickness . 
modern hearing assistance : physicians are the ' gateway ' [ editorial ] 
will generic sustitution affect quality of geriatric care ? 
what causes falls ? a logical diagnostic procedure . any fall in the elderly may signal impending major illness . falls may be caused by any acute or chronic illness that causes weakness or dizziness . mi , stroke , or gi bleeding may well present with falls . a fall can be the first sign of urinary tract , respiratory , or gallbladder infection . avoid open-ended questions , such as " what happened ? " patients often state they slipped or tripped--possibly not the true reason for the fall . direct questions about symptoms ( " did you have difficulty in walking ? " or " did you feel dizzy ? " ) elicit more specific information . 
back pain in the elderly : updated diagnosis and management . ct of compression fractures is a useful adjunct to the plain x-ray in excluding signs of metastasis . however , increased bone density on ct may not distinguish osteoporotic fractures from neoplastic disease , in which case radioiodine scan , bone and marrow biopsies , or myelography may be necessary . surgery for painful osteoarthritic spinal disease is controversial . the potential advantages of surgery must be weighted against the risk of anesthesia , the length and tolerance of postoperative immobility , and the effect of laminectomy and fusion on the biomechanics of the spine . furthermore , the elderly are at increased risk for postoperative complications . 
restoring hearing to the older patient : the physician 's role . there is growing evidence that failure to diagnose and manage hearing problems early in their course results in significant and--to some extent--irreversible sensory deprivation . the primary care physician should routinely screen patients over age 50 for pure-tone sensitivity as part of the general physical examination . battery-operated , in-office , limited-frequency audiometers are available for under $ 350. 
keep on taking the weedkiller ? [ editorial ] 
oesophageal and gastric motility disorders in patients categorised as having primary anorexia nervosa . gastrointestinal motor function in patients with primary anorexia nervosa has rarely been investigated . we studied oesophageal motor activity in 30 consecutive patients meeting standard diagnostic criteria for primary anorexia nervosa ( feighner et al ; dsm iii ) . seven were found to suffer from achalasia instead of primary anorexia nervosa , one from diffuse oesophageal spasm and one from severe gastro-oesophageal reflux and upper oesophageal sphincter hypertonicity , while partly non-propulsive and repetitive high amplitude , long duration contractions prevailed in the lower oesophagus of another six . in four patients with oesophageal dysmotility not responding to therapy and in 12 of 15 patients with normal oesophageal manometry , gastric emptying of a semisolid meal was studied . emptying was normal in only three but markedly delayed in 13 cases ( half emptying times 97-330 min , median : 147 min , as compared with 21-119 min , median : 47 min , in 24 healthy controls ) . in eight patients , the effects of domperidone 10 mg iv and placebo were compared under random double blind conditions . half emptying times were shortened significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) by domperidone . conclusions : symptoms of disordered upper gastrointestinal motor activity may be mistaken as indicating primary anorexia nervosa ; clinical evaluation of patients with presumed primary anorexia nervosa should rule out the possibility that disordered oesophageal motor activity underlies the symptoms ; delayed gastric emptying is a frequent feature in primary anorexia nervosa and might be returned to normal with domperidone . 
gastro-oesophageal reflux in the irritable bowel syndrome . symptomatic assessment and oesophageal investigations were done in 25 consecutive patients with the irritable bowel syndrome attending a gastroenterological clinic . symptoms of gastro-oesophageal reflux , dysphagia , and a globus sensation were significantly commoner than in a control group of fracture clinic patients . ambulatory oesophageal ph monitoring showed clearly abnormal reflux in 11 of 22 patients ( 50 % ) . nine patients had macroscopic endoscopic changes and a further 11 biopsy changes alone , of oesophagitis which was thus present in 80 % overall . lower oesophageal sphincter pressure was significantly less in irritable bowel patients than in age and sex matched controls , but upper oesophageal sphincter pressure was comparable in the two groups and disordered peristalsis was not found . oesophageal symptoms in the irritable bowel syndrome are mainly caused by gastro-oesophageal reflux predisposed to by a subnormal lower oesophageal sphincter pressure , rather than by oesophageal spasm . 
campylobacter like organisms in duodenal and antral endoscopic biopsies : relationship to inflammation . in 66 endoscopic duodenal biopsies studied retrospectively and in 84 paired duodenal and antral biopsies assessed prospectively campylobacter like organisms were seen in 22 ( 33 % ) of the retrospectively examined duodenal biopsies and in 61 ( 73 % ) examined prospectively , and in 70 ( 83 % ) of antral biopsies . in the duodenum the organisms were mostly confined to the surface epithelium in areas showing gastric metaplasia , while in the antrum they were also found within superficial glands . a strong association was shown between the presence of campylobacter like organisms and histological active duodenal inflammation . 
dietary salt and gastric ulcer [ published erratum appears in gut 1986 dec ; 27 ( 12 ) : 1523 ] statistically significant linear correlations between geographic variations in salt consumption and mortality from gastric , but not duodenal ulcer , are reported . it is suggested that dietary consumption of salt is a risk factor in mortality from gastric ulcer . 
dose related in vitro effects of ranitidine and cimetidine on basal and acth-stimulated steroidogenesis . isolated bovine adrenocortical cells were incubated with and without 3 ng / ml acth , with various concentrations ( 10-1000 micrograms / ml ) of either cimetidine or ranitidine . cortisol , corticosterone , and deoxycorticosterone outputs were measured . cimetidine and ranitidine at 320 and 1000 micrograms / ml inhibited acth-stimulated corticosterone and cortisol synthesis and cimetidine decreased basal cortisol synthesis . the inhibitory effects of cimetidine on cortisol synthesis were approximately 10 times greater than those of ranitidine . cimetidine ( 1000 micrograms / ml ) , but not ranitidine increased deoxycorticosterone synthesis by acth-stimulated cells , indicating inhibition of 11 beta-hydroxylation in the adrenal steroidogenic pathway . although doses of cimetidine and ranitidine which produce these in vitro effects are much greater than plasma concentrations in normal clinical use , they might be important in acutely ill patients given intravenous bolus injections of cimetidine , or if either antagonist were accumulated by the adrenal to produce high intracellular concentrations . 
influence of sham feeding on salt and water absorption in the human jejunum . vagal stimulation induced by sham feeding in 11 healthy subjects was used to examine the possibility that the autonomic nervous system might be involved in the control of human jejunal absorption . gastric acid secretion was measured from gastric aspirates corrected for recovery , and jejunal absorption was determined using a triple lumen perfusion technique . sham feeding induced a significant increase in gastric acid secretion from 1.29 to 7.73 mmol / h ( p less than 0.02 ) . jejunal absorption of water decreased significantly from 41.0 to 26.8 ml / 30cm / h ( p less than 0.02 ) , sodium from 2.60 to 0.74 mmol / 30cm / h ( p less than 0.05 , and chloride from 2.68 to 0.74 mmol / 30cm / h ( p less than 0.02 ) . during the hour after sham feeding gastric acid secretion and jejunal absorption returned towards basal values . these results suggest that vagal stimulation may have influenced jejunal absorption of salt and water in man and supports the possibility that the autonomic nervous system has a physiological role in the control of intestinal mucosal function . 
immunoglobulin production by coeliac biopsies in organ culture . the production of immunoglobulins by jejunal mucosa during organ culture has been studied . in 18 untreated coeliac patients the amounts of iga , secretory iga and igm in the culture medium were higher than in those from 17 normal controls . the results in 15 treated coeliac patients did not differ from the control subjects . mucosal biopsies from patients with serum iga deficiency produced very little iga , but large amounts of igg and igm . the addition of neither frazer 's gluten fraction iii , nor alpha-gliadin to the culture system stimulated any additional increased secretion of immunoglobulins from the untreated coeliac patients . production of iga and igm by the small bowel mucosa continues during organ culture , but that of igg appears insignificant . 
absorption capacity of fructose in healthy adults . comparison with sucrose and its constituent monosaccharides . the capacity to absorb fructose in 10 healthy adults was investigated by means of hydrogen breath analysis . fructose absorption was quantified with lactulose standards . significant hydrogen production ( greater than or equal to 20 ppm rise of breath hydrogen ) was found after challenge with 10 % solutions of 50 , 37.5 , 25 , 20 , and 15 g fructose in eight , seven , five , four and one subjects , respectively . one subject showed malabsorption after a 10 g dose and possibly also 5 g fructose . in contrast , no malabsorption could be detected in any of the 10 subjects after ingestion of 100 g , 75 g , or 50 g sucrose or a mixture of 50 g glucose and 50 g fructose . after ingestion of mixtures of 50 g fructose +25 g glucose and 50 g fructose +12.5 g glucose malabsorption was present in three and seven subjects , respectively . symptoms during all challenges were mild , or absent . it is concluded that in the healthy state the absorption capacity of fructose given alone ranges from less than 5 g to more than 50 g . the absorption capacity of fructose given as sucrose is much higher . glucose stimulates fructose uptake in a dose dependent fashion . the possible existence of more than one intestinal transport system for fructose is considered . the elucidation of the clinical relevance of the findings is important . 
faecal metronidazole concentrations during oral and intravenous therapy for antibiotic associated colitis due to clostridium difficile . faecal metronidazole and hydroxymetronidazole concentrations measured by high pressure liquid chromatography are reported during 10 episodes of clostridium difficile colitis in nine patients . bactericidal faecal concentrations were present in all patients with acute disease receiving oral or intravenous metronidazole , and all responded to therapy . metronidazole and hydroxymetronidazole concentrations fell as the diarrhoea improved and neither substance was detectable in the faeces of five patients after recovery . this demonstration of intracolonic therapeutic concentrations of metronidazole supports the clinical experience of oral metronidazole being effective in the treatment of antibiotic associated diarrhoea caused by c difficile and also suggests a potential role for intravenous metronidazole in this disease . 
studies of the free faecal amines of infants with gastroenteritis and of healthy infants . the free primary amines present in the faeces of 44 infants ( 1-18 months ) with gastroenteritis have been examined by field desorption mass spectrometry of the lactone form of their fluorescamine derivatives without their prior separation . p-tyramine , 2-phenylethylamine , the diamines , putrescine and cadaverine and several of their acyl derivatives were common constituents , but a number of other amines were also characterised . using thin layer chromatography and field desorption mass spectrometry of the amine dansyl derivatives a comparative study was made of the faecal amines of 13 selected infants with gastroenteritis ( diarrhoea ) and of 13 healthy infants . p-tyramine , the most abundant amine , was significantly higher ( p = 0.02 ) in the sick infants . the overall presence of p-tyramine was more significantly related to the diet of the infants . faecal tyramine was low in breast fed infants but significantly higher ( p = 0.01 ) in infants fed cow 's milk . 
cholecystectomy and adenomatous polyps of the large bowel . seventy two patients ( 39 women ) with colonic adenomas were compared with 72 adenoma free controls ( 39 women ) to investigate the possible association between previous cholecystectomy and the subsequent development of adenomas . data were gathered retrospectively from medical records . overall there was no significant association between colonic adenomas and previous cholecystectomy . when women are considered separately , however , eight cases and no controls had undergone cholecystectomy ( odds ratio infinity lower 95 % confidence limits 1.7 , p greater than 0.01 ) . no association between previous cholecystectomy and large bowel adenomas was found in men . four of nine ( 44.4 % ) women with right sided colonic adenomas had undergone previous cholecystectomy compared with only three of 23 ( 13 % ) women with left sided adenomas . 
tumours and pseudotumours of the region of the ampulla of vater : an endoscopic , clinical and pathological study . from a large series of patients referred for endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography to one endoscopist , 49 patients had the duodenoscopic appearance of a periampullary tumour . thirty eight of these lesions were neoplastic , but the remaining 11 patients had inflammatory non-neoplastic lesions ( pseudotumours ) . these could not be distinguished from the neoplasms on endoscopic appearances . the cholangiopancreatograms were similar except that the diameter of the pancreatic duct tended to be higher in the tumour group and gall stones were present significantly more often in the patients with pseudotumour . endoscopic biopsy correctly diagnosed 28 of 34 ampullary carcinomas . two of the 11 pseudotumour patients were subjected to surgical excision biopsy because of suspicious histological features of endoscopic biopsy . in the neoplastic group 19 patients underwent whipple 's procedure , seven surgical bypass , seven endoscopic sphincterotomy only and five died without successful biliary drainage . the overall one year survival was 44.7 % . by contrast , the patients with pseudotumours were clinically well at a median follow up 24 months ( range 12-41 months ) , after endoscopic sphincterotomy except for one 89 year old patient who died 22 months later from unrelated causes . 
endoscopic retrograde cholangiography and endoscopic papillotomy in patients with a previous billroth-ii resection . methods for endoscopic retrograde cholangiography ( erc ) and endoscopic papillotomy ( ept ) in patients with billroth-ii operations are described , and experience with their use during the last four years ( since 1980 ) is presented . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography was successful in 134 of 147 patients ( 92 % ) and endoscopic papillotomy was successful in 46 of 50 patients . the described methods were used in two different hospitals by two different endoscopists and there was no difference in the results . we conclude that patients with a billroth-ii operation may undergo endoscopic diagnostic as well as therapeutic procedures with a high rate of success , with similar results as in ordinary patients and with no greater risk of complications . 
portal hypertensive gastric mucosa : an endoscopic study . the endoscopic features of the gastric mucosa in patients with cirrhosis have not been systematically investigated . in these patients , we observed an endoscopic aspect , consisting of multiple small erythematous areas , outlined by a subtle yellowish network ( resembling a mosaic ) , mainly located in the proximal part of the stomach . we tested the value of this sign by comparing two groups : 100 patients with portal hypertension due to cirrhosis , and 300 control patients without signs of liver disease or portal hypertension . this endoscopic pattern was observed in 94 of the patients with cirrhosis , whereas oesophageal varices were seen in 78 only . in contrast , only one patient of the control group had this aspect . moreover , this sign was also found in seven of eight patients with non cirrhotic portal hypertension , but was seen neither in 100 patients with chronic alcoholism but without liver disease , nor in 10 cirrhotic patients with end-to-side portacaval shunts . these endoscopic changes might be because of mucosal and / or submucosal oedema and congestion highlighting the normal areae gastricae pattern and related to raised portal pressure . we conclude that the mosaic pattern of the gastric mucosa is a sensible and specific sign for diagnosis of portal hypertension , whatever the cause . 
influence of the degree of liver failure on systemic and splanchnic haemodynamics and on response to propranolol in patients with cirrhosis . systemic and splanchnic haemodynamics were studied in patients with cirrhosis who had been classified in three groups ( a , b , and c ) according to the degree of liver failure ( modified pugh 's classification ) . in patients of group a , cardiac index was significantly lower than that of group c and systemic vascular resistance was higher , but not significantly so , than that of patients with liver failure . wedged hepatic venous pressure was significantly lower in the former group than in the latter . in patients in group b , corresponding values fell between those of groups a and c . azygos blood flow averaged 0.477 + / - 0.242 l / min ( mean + / - sd ) in group a and it was significantly lower than in groups b and c ( 0.642 + / - 0.224 and 1.061 + / - 0.476 l / min , respectively ) . in the three groups , acute administration of propranolol induced statistically significant changes in systemic and splanchnic haemodynamics . in patients of group c but not of group b , the mean value of azygos blood flow after propranolol remained significantly higher than in group a . moreover , the fraction of azygos blood flow to cardiac output decreased in groups a and b while slightly increased in group c . this study shows that in patients with cirrhosis , the degree of liver failure may be a determinant for the haemodynamic responses to drugs acting on portal hypertension . 
effects of cimetidine on the healing and recurrence of duodenal ulcers and gastric ulcers . the effects of cimetidine on the healing and recurrence of duodenal ulcers and gastric ulcers were compared . the extent of the acid secreting areas was examined by the endoscopic congo red methylene blue test . using the extent of acid secreting areas gastric ulcers were classified into ulcers with and without extensive acid secreting areas . duodenal ulcers were all associated with extensive acid secreting areas . the gastric acid outputs in the basal state and after maximal stimulation with gastrin were highest in duodenal ulcers , and lowest in gastric ulcers without extensive acid secreting areas . cimetidine treatment significantly promoted the healing of duodenal ulcers and gastric ulcers with extensive acid secreting areas when compared with placebo , but not of the gastric ulcers without extensive acid secreting areas . cimetidine also significantly diminished the recurrence of duodenal ulcers , but not gastric ulcers with and without extensive acid secreting areas . these findings indicate that in japan cimetidine promotes the healing of duodenal and gastric ulcers associated with high gastric acid production and prevents recurrence of duodenal ulcers , but has little or no influence on the healing and recurrence of gastric ulcers associated with low acid secretion . 
eosinophilic gastroenteritis presenting in an adolescent with isolated colonic involvement . eosinophilic gastroenteritis most commonly involves the stomach and proximal small intestine with eosinophilic inflammation of either the mucosa , submucosa or serosa . the patient reported here had isolated eosinophilic colitis . the initial presentation with iron deficiency anaemia owing to occult gastrointestinal blood loss emphasises the need to evaluate the entire gastrointestinal tract in patients with eosinophilic gastroenteritis . 
expectant management of patients with unilateral hepatic duct stricture and liver atrophy . three patients with postcholecystectomy unilateral hepatic duct stricture and subsequent liver atrophy were treated conservatively , with a successful outcome of up to three years follow up . a better understanding of the pathophysiological sequelae of segmental hepatic duct obstruction suggests that in such circumstances reconstructive surgery , with its attendant risks , may not invariably be necessary . 
relationship between disease activity indices and colonoscopic findings in patients with colonic inflammatory bowel diseases [ letter ] 
another example of strongyloides stercoralis infection associated with cimetidine in an immunosuppressed patient [ letter ] 
physician fees important to successful ppa operations . 
coalitions play key role in tort reform passage . 
danzon : leader in malpractice study . 
data needs undergo change as multis change . 
more dollars to fuel coalitions . 
bankruptcy : will it happen to you ? 
new economic environment alters cfos ' roles . 
cfos see major shifts coming in their hospital roles ... while others have completed their transitions . 
lutheran 's cfo : a valued player . 
hospital sales efforts begin to take shape . 
united healthcare increases stake in hmo ventures . 
most hospitals need more physicians : survey . 
hospitals becoming driving force in acc market . 
cousins : hospital-patient teamwork lowers costs [ interview by myk cherskov ] 
robots move supplies for less money and labor . 
union activity on the rise , new aha report states . 
rns : two-thirds of nursing staff . 
multis flock to increasingly attractive rehab field . 
co public hospital dumps patients . 
public holds low opinions of nursing home care . 
do sluggish gnp , rising inflation mean trouble ? 
how to ensure your facility 's financial health . 
are we losing the " caring " dimension ? 
99th congress enacts major health policy reforms . 
legislative focus on indigent care likely to continue . 
hospitals hand hhs serious defeats in 1986. 
antitrust issues brought into focus . 
multis retrench , reshape strategies in 1986. 
businesses ' aggressive search for data pays off . 
tax reform , financial crunch highlight 1986. 
long-term needs shape hospital marketing . 
public opinion says hospitals ' image unchanged . 
managed care : when you 're hot , you 're hot ... 
physicians grapple with changing health delivery . 
physician-income guarantees may jeopardize tax-exempt status . 
hospitals show " business smarts " by diversifying . 
1986 : suppliers merge ; big guys prosper . 
new drugs deflate resistant bacteria , hospital infections . 
right-to-life issues further clouded by aging population . 
1986 : the year of the nurse executive . 
specialty providers : feast and famine in ' 86. 
hospitals ' 1986 info spending tops $ 3.5 billion . 
aids , drugs , and teen health care top social ills . 
competition takes over as health planning fades . 
disposal costs for radioactive waste steadily increase . 
minimizing anemia in the chronic hemodialysis patient . 
managing the diabetic with renal insufficiency . 
hypertension in dialysis patients [ editorial ] 
chronic hemodialysis in children [ editorial ] 
continuous arterio-venous ultrafiltration in the management of the renal complications of liver disease [ editorial ] 
the occurrence of fever during hemodialysis and hemofiltration . a comparative study . the occurrence of fever during various blood purification methods was evaluated in a retrospective study . it could be demonstrated , that patients treated chronically by conventional hemodialysis experience six times more febrile episodes than patients on chronic hemofiltration ( 4.84 % versus 0.81 % ) . since many of the increased temperatures could not be explained by conventional means , it has to be assumed that the treatment itself caused the fever , possibly activating the monocyte hormone interleukin 1. it is of further note that there was no difference in the magnitude of the temperature due to septicaemia or to no obvious cause . this finding necessitates in our opinion an early antibiotic therapy in those cases where fever develops without clear explanation . 
internal jugular vein thrombosis after subclavian vein cannulation : detection by computed tomography . 
continuous arterio-venous ultrafiltration in cirrhotic patients with ascites or renal failure . to assess whether continuous arteriovenous ultrafiltration ( cavu ) might constitute a useful alternative to hemodialysis in the management of patients with advanced liver failure , we carried out cavu in 3 patients with decompensated laennec 's cirrhosis . cavu was utilized in two patients with acute renal failure and pulmonary edema to stabilize renal function and facilitate administration of large amounts of fluid . in the third case , cavu was successfully utilized to mobilize fluid in a patient refractory to conventional diuretic regimens . we conclude that cavu may constitute an appropriate alternative to traditional hemodialysis in patients with advanced liver disease and renal functional impairment . 
mineral metabolism during a hemofiltration session in children . we studied the effects of one session of hemofiltration on the mineral metabolism in a group of uremic children . we observed an increase of calcemia , accompanied by positive calcium balance , and a decrease of plasma phosphate and pth-mm . no substantial loss of plasma 25-oh d was found . it is concluded that hemofiltration has a positive effect on calcemia and is very effective in removing phosphate , but it acts only temporarily on pth removal . an adequate calcium concentration must be provided in the substitution fluid . 
ultrafiltration control during continuous arteriovenous hemodialysis using paired volumetric dialysate pumps [ letter ] 
observations on preparation of bicarbonate- buffered parenteral solution [ letter ] 
increased sensitivity of residual formaldehyde testing in reused dialysers [ letter ] 
blood detoxification and other therapeutical alternatives in nephrology . the author summarizes a number of blood detoxification procedures with emphasis on hemoperfusion , hemodialysis and chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . 
hemoperfusion based on artificial cells for aluminium and iron removal , immunosorption , fulminant hepatic failure , uremia , poisoning and metabolic assists . the author reviewed artificial cells and their applications in hemoperfusion for chronic renal failure , poisoning , fulminant hepatic failure , removal of aluminium and iron , and metabolic assists . other areas reviewed included artificial cells containing enzymes , multienzymes , immunosorbents , cell cultures and other areas . artificial cells can be formed as membrane coated adsorbent or microencapsulated adsorbent , enzymes and cells . the large surface to volume relationship and the ultrathin membrane of artificial cells allows the rapid equilibration of metabolites . artificial cells containing enzymes , ion exchange resin and activated charcoal have been used for hemoperfusion . the microencapsulated or membrane coated absorbents , enzymes , cells , immunosorbents and other material are prevented from releasing unwanted material into the circulation and prevented from adverse effects on blood cells . because of the problem of charcoal in releasing emboli and depleting platelets we first developed coated activated charcoal hemoperfusion for clinical application . this has been used extensively in clinical studies . the artificial cell approach has also been applied to a number of other hemoperfusion approaches . the lack of space only allows this paper to summarize some of the approaches originated from this research centre . 
technical aspects of hemoperfusion . a review of the different types of adsorbents being used in hemoperfusion . the different types of polymers used in coating charcoal are also reviewed . 
preclinical evaluation of haemosorbents . the selection of assessment procedures for the preclinical evaluation of haemosorbents and the relationship between such procedures and the intended application are exemplified by examination of the design and utilization of procedures based on the rat . procedures are described for haemoperfusion and for membrane plasma separation followed by on-line sorbent treatment of plasma ( plasma perfusion ) . these procedures are suitable for single or repeated use , with the animal in an unrestrained and conscious state . the relevance to the intended application is demonstrated with respect to artificial liver support by the ability of rat extracorporeal circuits to provide information on the relationship between sorbent properties and liver regeneration as determined by the proliferative response following partial hepatectomy . 
hemoperfusion in reduced-time programmes for chronic uremia . long-term results . this paper reports the authors ' 8 year experience in the clinical use of charcoal hemoperfusion as a means to reduce the weekly time of treatment in chronic uremic patients . two different programmes were applied . programme a ( 34 patients ) which involved substituting the 3 procedures per week of standard dialysis ( 4 hours duration each ) by 2 procedures of combined hemodialysis and hemoperfusion , again of 4 hours duration each . programme b ( 18 patients ) which involved substituting the 3 procedures per week of 4 hours duration by 3 procedures of 3 hours each , 2 of combined hemodialysis and hemoperfusion , 1 of conventional dialysis . the net weekly reduction was 33 % for programme a and 25 % for programme b . the efficacy of the two programmes was evaluated by clinical , hematochemical , nutritional and instrumental parameters . 
routine clinical applications of hemodialysis-hemoperfusion in chronic renal failure : case reports . five hemodialysis patients were treated with combined hemodialysis-hemoperfusion with their conventional hemodialyzer plus a 70-gram ultrathin collodion coated activated charcoal device for a total of 63 months . indications for this therapy included pericarditis , peripheral neuropathy , clotting of conventional hemodialyzers and reduction of dialysis time and frequency . the outcome was beneficial in all cases and stable biochemical and hematological parameters were maintained . no increase in heparin requirements was noted and the therapy was thought to be cost-effective . 
combined hemoperfusion / hemodialysis in the treatment of uremic patients with vascular access problems : case reports . 
kinetic modeling of powder charcoal haemoperfusion . the aim of this study was to achieve more understanding of the mass transfer characteristics of the filmadsorber haemoperfusion device . first , a structural model with mathematical description of the different diffusion steps was developed . exact quantification appeared very difficult , resulting in insufficient fit of predicted and measured concentration curves . moreover , the mathematics turned out simple , since the concentration courses could be described with one exponential power . therefore , a formal model was developed , assuming linear isotherms and adsorption , proportional to the average concentration in the column . with this model predicted in-vitro inlet and outlet concentrations could be fitted to the measured data accurately . a relation between both models is given under the condition of high intraparticle mass transfer , which is allowed in case of powder adsorbents . it can be concluded that structural models do not yield predictive tools for optimization of device geometry . a formal model with two constants determining device performance enables device optimization with the help of some in-vitro experiments . 
resin hemoperfusion for drug intoxication--an update . hemoperfusion through amberlite xad-4 resin column has been shown to effectively remove sedative-hypnotics , analgesics and other drugs causing acute intoxication . there is no appreciable clinical toxicity and dramatic shortening of coma time and possible decrease in mortality may be achieved . thrombocytopenia and clotting may be diminished by pre-perfusion coating with 2.5 % albumin . albumin coating may facilitate the repeated use of hemoperfusion without any complications . more recently , resin hemoperfusion has been used for procainamide , n-acetylprocainamide and theophylline intoxication achieving exceptionally high clearance rates . 
removal of unconjugated bilirubin by macroreticular resin in hemoperfusion . macroporous polystyrene and polyvinylpyridine beads with quaternary ammonium and tertiary groups were tailor-made for the adsorption of unconjugated bilirubin . in vitro studies in order to obtain high adsorption capacity , the synthesized macroporous resin should have an average pore size of about 160 a and with surface area as large as possible . as the crosslinking of the resin increased from 4 % -40 % the amount of bilirubin adsorbed increased from 0.17 mg / g to 2.0 mg / g . resins containing strong basic groups have higher adsorption capacities than their corresponding weak base groups . adsorption mechanism studies showed that both chemical and physical adsorption took place . adsorption of bilirubin in plasma was some what lower than in buffer solution . 
investigation of bilirubin removal by nk-110 resin hemoperfusion in jaundiced dogs . a jaundiced dog model was made by common bile duct-inferior vena cava shunt with a silicon rubber tube . blood bilirubin levels increased from 0.25 + / - 0.16 ( sd ) mg % to 15 + / - 1.4 ( sd ) mg % . these dog models were treated with a column containing 200 gm of macroreticular resin nk-110 which was linked between the femoral artery and vein . the rate of blood flow through the column was 200 ml / min . it was shown that total bilirubin reduced from 15 + / - 1.4 ( sd ) to 7.4 + / - 0.61 ( sd ) , conjugated bilirubin decreased from 6.97 + / - 0.63 to 3.5 + / - 0.33 ( sd ) and unconjugated bilirubin from 7.8 + / - 2.1 to 4.2 + / - 0.4 ( sd ) . there were no significant changes in protein , electrolyte , blood gases and acid base balance . results show that nk-110 resin has good blood-compatible and adsorption properties . 
bioartificial liver : implanted artificial cells microencapsulated living hepatocytes increases survival of liver failure rats . suspension of living hepatocytes were microencapsulated inside 300 micron mean diameter alginate artificial cells . the galactosamine fulminant hepatic failure rat model was used . 48 hours after the injection of galactosamine , grade ii coma hepatic failure rats were divided into pairs . one of the pair was randomly chosen for the control group , and the other for the treated group . each rat in the control group received one peritoneal injection of microcapsules containing no hepatocytes . each rat in the treated group received one peritoneal injection of microcapsules containing hepatocytes . the survival of the treated group is significantly higher than the control group . 
removal of denatured proteins with artificial reticulo-endothelial system ( ares ) . basic research has revealed that hydrophobic residues increased on the molecular surface of the denatured igg and that the denatured proteins in the plasma can be removed by several sorbents of different amino acids bonded from polyvinylalcohol hydroxide residue with a covalent bond . thus , an artificial reticulo-endothelial system was developed to supplement the human reticulo-endothelial system ( res ) by removing denatured proteins from the patient 's plasma . clinically , angiitis and raynaud 's phenomenon associated with collagen disease such as systemic lupus erythematosus were remarkably reduced following a series of ares treatments . the proteins adsorbed on the ares were analyzed by two-dimensional electrophoresis . virtually no albumin was detected , and igg ( constant isoelectric point ) , igm , iga , iga dimer , c3 , c4 , fibrinogen and other unidentified spots were found in the elute from the ares column . 
adsorption of lipoprotein containing apolipoprotein-b through plasma separation for treatment of familial hypercholesterolemia . for the treatment of familial hypercholesterolemia , liposorber la-40 was clinically applied . the liposorber is a commercially developed affinity adsorbent for plasma perfusion which selectivity adsorbs low density lipoproteins and very low density lipoproteins and is specially designed for plasmapheretic treatment of hypercholesterolemia . the liposorber column , containing activated cellulose beads having an affinity for lipoprotein containing apolipoprotein-b , has an excellent adsorption capacity , excellent selectivity , minimum albumin loss . this new apheresis system was applied to 2 clinical cases . after seven months of trial perfusion every 2 weeks , patient condition was good , with a level of total cholesterol under 300 mg / dl . no replacement fluids were given during or after treatment . in this paper , clinical results of these patients were shown and the mechanism of adsorption of this specific adsorbent was discussed . 
blood detoxification by membrane plasma filtration . the recognition of macromolecule abnormalities in various metabolic or immunologic related disease states has led to the use of plasma exchange for therapeutics . limitations of plasma exchange , however , exist . membrane plasma filtration provides a practical alternative . solute removal can be made selective by the choice of operating conditions as temperature and the selection of the membrane / module design . the optimal temperature range is a function of the plasma type , solute concentrations and membrane system . operation at below physiologic temperature ( cryofiltration ) is particularly suited for the removal of cold aggregative solutes , while operation at near or above physiologic temperature is more suited for the separation of solutes having large size differences at normal physiologic temperature . membrane filtration is simple and safe to perform , is more selective than plasma exchange , does not require plasma product infusion and is more versatile than selective sorption in its applications . 
selective removal of pathogenetic macromolecules directly from whole blood by double filtration technique . double filtration plasmapheresis ( dfpp ) is a technique devised in an attempt to selectively remove pathogenetic macromolecules such as antibodies , immune complexes or viscosity-increasing substances directly from blood . in order to realize the differential filtration principle , two filters , one for separation of plasma and another for fractionation of plasma components , are installed in an extracorporeal circulation line . selective separation of the plasma components is dependent on the filtration property of the two filters . clinical experiences evidence the usefulness of this technique in regard to conservation of human blood products for supplementation . 
development and clinical application of perfluorochemical artificial blood . a review of the authors ' experience on the use of fluosol da . this includes studies on animals and also clinical trials on patients . 
migraine prophylaxis with salmon calcitonin : a cross-over double-blind , placebo-controlled study . 
basilar migraine manifesting as transient global amnesia in a 9-year-old child . 
unusual transient high and low density ct lesion in migraine : a case report . 
the validity of the vascular " cold patch " in the diagnosis of chronic headache . 
cluster headache and the nervus intermedius . 
transient focal headaches with persistent ipsilateral eeg disturbances . 
hereditary dysrhythmic headache . 
psychopathology in volunteers for headache research : initial versus later respondents . 
headaches and heart disease : the lack of a positive association . 
is thermography a marker for vascular headaches ? [ editorial ] 
iv dhe-45 relieves exertional cephalgia [ letter ] 
prolactin and migraine : effect of l-dopa on plasma prolactin levels in migraineurs and normals . 
cardiovascular reflex responses during migraine attack . 
the non-epileptiform basilar artery migraine . 
pattern-shift visual evoked responses and eeg in migraine . 
the economic burden of headache : an epidemiological study in the republic of san marino . 
a quantitative assessment of photophobia in migraine and tension headache . 
treatment of vascular headaches . 
piribedil test in migraine : neuroendocrinological aspects . 
unusual angiographic appearance during an attack of hemiplegic migraine [ letter ] 
on migraine , the pill , and stroke [ letter ] 
vertical gradient of pulmonary capillary transit times . the key determinants of alveolar capillary perfusion are transit times and the extent of recruitment . capillaries are known to be heavily recruited in the dependent lung , but there are no direct data that bear on how capillary transit times might be affected by gravity . we directly determined mean capillary transit times on the surface of the upper , middle , and lower lung by measuring the passage of fluorescent dye through the capillaries using in vivo television microscopy . in anesthetized dogs , mean capillary transit times averaged 12.3 s in the upper lung , 3.1 s in the midlung , and 1.6 s in the lower lung . this near order of magnitude variation in speed of blood transit establishes that there is a vertical gradient of capillary transit times in the lung . as expected , dependent capillary networks were nearly fully recruited , whereas relatively few capillaries were perfused in the upper lung . the lengthy transit times and sparsely perfused capillary beds in the upper lung combine to provide a substantial part of pulmonary gas exchange reserve . 
occlusion pressure and ventilation during sleep in normal humans . previous investigation in normal humans has demonstrated reduced ventilation and ventilatory responses to chemical stimuli during sleep . most have interpreted this to be a product of decreasing central nervous system sensitivity to the normal stimuli that maintain ventilation , whereas other factors such as increasing airflow resistance could also contribute to this reduction in respiration . to improve our understanding of these events , we measured ventilation and occlusion pressures ( p0.1 ) during unstimulated ventilation and rebreathing-induced hypercapnia during wakefulness and non-rapid-eye-movement ( nrem ) and rapid-eye-movement ( rem ) sleep . eighteen subjects ( 10 males and 8 females ) of whom seven were snorers ( 5 males and 2 females ) were studied . ventilation was reduced during both nrem and rem sleep ( p less than 0.05 ) , but this decrement in minute ventilation tended to be greater in snorers than nonsnorers . unstimulated p0.1 , on the other hand , was maintained or increased during sleep in all groups studied , with males and snorers showing the largest increase . the hypercapnic ventilatory response fell during both nrem and rem sleep and tended to be lower during rem than nrem sleep . however , the p0.1 response to hypercapnia during nrem sleep was well maintained at the waking level although the rem response was statistically reduced . these studies suggest that the mechanism of the reduction in ventilation and the hypercapnic ventilatory response seen during sleep , particularly nrem sleep , is likely to be multifactorial and not totally a product of decreasing central respiratory drive . 
control of activity of the diaphragm in rapid-eye-movement sleep . respiration in rapid-eye-movement sleep ( rems ) is known to be highly variable . the purpose of this study was to investigate the source of this variability and to determine which ordering principles remained operative in rem sleep . in unrestrained , naturally sleeping cats we recorded the electroencephalogram , electrooculogram , neck electromyogram , and diaphragmatic electromyogram ( emg ) and computed its moving average ( madi ) . as a reference , we first examined madi during " tonic " rems , since breathing is fairly regular in this state . " control " ranges for peak amplitude ( pemg ) , inspiratory time ( ti ) , duration of postinspiratory inspiratory activity , expiratory time , and the calculated inspiratory slope ( pemg / ti ) were determined by overlaying individual breath traces of the time course of madi during tonic rems to form a composite tracing . next , the time course of the emg during individual breaths in slow-wave sleep ( sws ) and a complete period of consecutive breaths in rems ( both tonic and phasic ) were compared with this tonic rems composite . the number of eye movements per breath was tabulated as an index of phasic activity . the inspiratory slopes during sws and tonic rems were similar . however , during phasic rems , many breaths displayed either increases ( excitation ) or decreases ( inhibition ) in slope compared with the " typical " breaths seen in tonic rems . the occurrence of these altered slopes increased with the frequency of phasic events . ti was inversely related to the slope of the emg , which tended to minimize changes in pemg . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
enhanced lipolysis is not evident in adipocytes from exercise-trained shr . adipocytes from spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr ) are not as responsive to isoproterenol or dibutyryl adenosine 3 ' , 5'-cyclic monophosphate ( camp ) stimulation compared with sprague-dawley or wistar-kyoto rats . lipolytic activity in adipocytes from trained normotensive rats was enhanced in response to 1 microm isoproterenol and 0.5 mm dibutyryl camp but not in adipocytes from trained shr . decreases in isoproterenol-stimulated ( 1 microm ) camp accumulation were evident in adipocytes from trained normotensive rats but not in adipocytes from trained shr . basal and agonist-induced lipolysis in fat cells isolated from both normotensive rats and shr immediately following a 60-min run was increased in both sedentary and trained rats . adenylate cyclase activity in fat cell membranes was blunted in sedentary and trained shr both in the absence and presence of 100 microm 5'-guanylyl imidophosphate . no apparent differences existed in antagonist affinity of binding sites for the antagonist dihydroalprenolol in normal rats or shr . evidence for a change in affinity of agonist isoproterenol might be indicated based on the enhanced potency of isoproterenol to stimulate lipolysis in trained normal rats . beta-adrenergic receptor density and antagonist affinity were not different in normotensive rats and shr in response to training . however , displacement of [ 3h ] dihydroalprenolol in adipocytes from shr required greater concentrations of isoproterenol compared with adipocytes from normotensive rats , further suggestive of increased agonist affinity of binding sites in normal rats . these data suggest a postreceptor lesion of the lipolytic pathway in adipocytes from spontaneously hypertensive rats , possibly at the guanine nucleotide regulatory protein level . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
within-breath electromyographic changes during loaded breathing in adult sheep . to investigate the changes in diaphragm electromyogram ( emg ) during the course of severe loaded breathing , we subjected five conscious adult sheep to inspiratory flow resistive breathing ( resistance greater than 150 cmh2o x l-1 x s ) for up to 2-3 h and studied the total emg power per breath ( iemg ) and the emg power per unit time after dividing the duration of emg activity within each breath into three equal parts ( iemg1 , iemg2 , and iemg3 ) . both total breath iemg and transdiaphragmatic pressure ( pdi ) increased , remained at a high level for a certain period of time , and then started to fall . a change in the pattern of iemg within a breath was observed during loaded breathing . the increase in total-breath iemg was associated mostly with an increase in iemg3 , or the last part of the emg power within each inspiration . similarly , the decrease in total breath iemg was primarily due to a decrease in iemg3 . we conclude that , in sheep subjected to severe ifr loads for prolonged periods the marked increase in total-breath iemg at the beginning of loaded breathing and the marked decrease in this iemg at the time of decrease in pdi are largely due to changes in iemg that occur during the latter third of each breath . we speculate that during loaded breathing the recruitment pattern of diaphragmatic muscle fibers changes during the course of an inspiratory effort . 
vip and phm and their role in nonadrenergic inhibitory responses in isolated human airways . there is increasing evidence in many species that vasoactive intestinal peptide ( vip ) may be a neurotransmitter in nonadrenergic inhibitory nerves . we have studied the effect of electrical field stimulation ( efs ) , exogenous vip , and isoproterenol ( iso ) on human airways in vitro . we have also studied a related peptide , peptide histidine methionine ( phm ) , which coexists with vip in human airway nerves , and in separate experiments studied fragments of the vip amino acid sequence ( vip1-10 and vip16-28 ) for agonist and antagonist activity . human airways were obtained at thoracotomy and studied in an organ bath . in bronchi efs gave an inhibitory response that was unaltered by 10 ( -6 ) m propranolol but was blocked by tetrodotoxin , whereas in bronchioles there was little or no nonadrenergic inhibitory response . vip , phm , and iso all caused dose-dependent relaxation of bronchi , vip and phm being approximately 50-fold more potent than iso . vip , but not iso , mimicked the time course of nonadrenergic inhibitory nerve stimulation . in contrast bronchioles relaxed to iso but not to vip or phm . neither propranolol nor indomethacin altered the relaxant effects of vip or phm , suggesting a direct effect of these peptides on airway smooth muscle . neither of the vip fragments showed either agonist or antagonist activity . we conclude that vip and phm are more potent bronchodilators of human bronchi than iso and that the association between the relaxant effects of these peptides and nonadrenergic inhibitory responses suggests that they may be possible neurotransmitters of nonadrenergic inhibitory nerves in human airways . 
respiratory adaptation to chronic hypoxia in newborn rats . newborn rats were maintained in an hypoxic chamber ( 10 % o2 in n2 ) from the day of birth up to 2 wk of postnatal life . body weight ( bw ) and nose-tail length were less in the hypoxic exposed ( h ) rats than in control ( c ) animals growing in air . hematocrit rose from about 37 % to about 51 % . oxygen consumption ( vo2 ) , measured with a manometric method , was lower in h than in c rats ; the difference remained at 5-7 days even after normalization by bw . at 5-7 days ventilation , measured with an airflow plethysmograph , was much more elevated in h rats ( whether breathing 10 % o2 or air ) than in c rats , with an increase in both tidal volume and frequency . this indicates that the biphasic ventilatory response , characterized by an initial rise and then a fall of ventilation toward normoxic values , commonly observed in newborns during acute hypoxic challenge is an immediate but only transient response . the dry lung weight-to-bw ratio and alveolar size were larger in h than in c rats . lung volumes at 20 cmh2o were similar , despite the smaller bw of the h rats . hence , in the rat , chronic hypoxia in the immediate postnatal period increases o2-carrying capacity , decreases metabolic demands , increases alveolar o2 availability , and promotes structural changes in the lung that protect the gas exchange area and optimize the structure-function relationship of the lung . these results may also suggest that the lung structural alterations with chronic hypoxia should not be attributed to changes in vo2 but , eventually , to the ventilatory action of the organ . 
plasma adrenocorticotropin and cortisol responses to brief high-intensity exercise in humans . the purpose of this study is to examine plasma cortisol and adrenocorticotropin ( acth ) levels following a brief high-intensity bout of exercise . each subject ( n = 6 ) performed a 1-min bout of exercise on a cycle ergometer at 120 % of his maximum o2 uptake . blood samples were collected at rest , immediately following the exercise bout , and at 5 , 15 , and 30 min postexercise . mean ( + / - se ) plasma acth levels increased significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) from 2.2 + / - 0.4 pmol / l at rest to 6.2 + / - 1.7 pmol / l immediately following exercise . mean ( + / - se ) plasma cortisol levels increased significantly from 0.40 + / - 0.04 mumol / l at rest to 0.52 + / - 0.04 mumol / l at 15 min postexercise . these data show that brief high-intensity exercise results in significant increases in plasma cortisol and acth levels . furthermore , the temporal sequence between the two hormones suggests that the increase in plasma cortisol levels following brief high-intensity exercise is the result of acth-induced steroidogenesis in the adrenal cortex . 
stimulation of groups iii and iv phrenic afferents reflexly decreases total lung resistance in dogs . little is known about the reflex effect on airway caliber evoked by stimulation of phrenic afferents . therefore , in chloralose-anesthetized , paralyzed dogs , we recorded airflow , airway pressure , arterial pressure , and heart rate while electrically stimulating a phrenic nerve . total lung resistance was calculated breath by breath . the phrenic nerve was stimulated at 3 , 5 , 20 , 70 , 140 , and 200 times motor threshold and the compound action potential was recorded . stimulation of the phrenic nerve at three and five times threshold , which activated groups i , ii , and a few group iii fibers , had no effect on any of the variables measured . stimulation at 20 times threshold , which activated many group iii fibers and groups i and ii fibers , reflexly decreased resistance . stimulation at 70 , 140 , and 200 times threshold , which activated groups i-iv fibers , evoked progressively greater decreases in lung resistance . the reflex bronchodilation evoked by phrenic nerve stimulation was unaffected by propranolol or phentolamine but was abolished by atropine . we conclude that activation of groups iii and iv phrenic nerve afferents reflexly decreased total lung resistance by withdrawing cholinergic tone to airway smooth muscle . 
influence of central venous pressure change on plasma vasopressin in humans . after overnight food and fluid restriction , nine healthy males were examined before , during , and after lower body positive pressure ( lbpp ) of 11 + / - 1 mmhg ( mean + / - se ) for 30 min and before , during , and after graded lower body negative pressure ( lbnp ) of -10 + / - 1 , -20 + / - 2 , and -30 + / - 2 mmhg for 20 min each . lbpp and lbnp were performed with the subject in the supine position in a plastic box encasing the subject from the xiphoid process and down , thus including the splanchnic area . central venous pressure ( cvp ) during supine rest was 7.5 + / - 0.5 mmhg , increasing to 13.4 + / - 0.8 mmhg ( p less than 0.001 ) during lbpp and decreasing significantly at each step of lbnp to 2.0 + / - 0.5 mmhg ( p less than 0.001 ) at 15 min of -30 + / - 2 mmhg lbnp . plasma arginine vasopressin ( avp ) did not change significantly in face of this large variation in cvp of 11.4 mmhg . mean arterial pressure increased significantly during lbpp from 100 + / - 2 to 117 + / - 3 torr ( p less than 0.001 ) and only at one point during lbnp of -30 + / - 2 mmhg from 102 + / - 1 to 115 + / - 5 mmhg ( p less than 0.05 ) . heart rate did not change during lbpp but increased slightly from 51 + / - 3 to 55 + / - 3 beats / min ( p less than 0.05 ) only at 7 min of lbnp of -30 + / - 2 mmhg . plasma osmolality , sodium , and potassium did not change during the experiment . hemoglobin concentration increased during lbpp and lbnp , whereas hematocrit only increased during lbnp . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
effect of long-term anemia and retransfusion on central circulation during exercise . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of long-term anemia and subsequent retransfusion of erythrocytes on various circulatory parameters . anemia was induced in nine healthy male subjects by repeated venesections . the stored blood was retransfused after 9 wk ( range 8-11 wk ) . exercise tests were performed before venesection in the control state ( c ) , in the anemic state ( a ) , and 48 h after retransfusion ( r ) . hemoglobin concentration levels were 146 + / - 10 g / l in c , 110 + / - 7 g / l in a , and 145 + / - 9 g / l in r . maximal o2 uptake was 4.55 + / - 0.6 , 3.74 + / - 0.7 , and 4.45 + / - 0.6 l / min in c , a , and r , respectively . a decrease in heart rate of 7 beats / min ( p less than 0.01 ) and in cardiac output of 2 l / min ( p less than 0.05 ) at maximal exercise occurred in the anemic state compared with control values . these decreases were not reversed but , rather , were further accentuated after retransfusion . the adaptive response to submaximal exercise ( cycling at 150-175 w ) in anemia was mediated to the amount of 50 % by an increase in cardiac output ( mainly an increase in heart rate ) and 50 % was due to increased o2 extraction in the peripheral tissue . in conclusion , long-term anemia was found to decrease the heart rate and cardiac output at maximal exercise . furthermore the close correlation between hemoglobin concentration and maximal o2 uptake in humans is confirmed . 
metabolic cost of walking : equation and model . twenty years of published experience with the workman-armstrong equation for predicting walking vo2 is reviewed . the equation is reexpressed in currently accepted terminology , and it is shown that the equation serves well as a basic model of normal walking . employing this model to analyze vo2 / step leads to the elaboration of a three-compartment model of the metabolic cost of walking . this three-compartment model provides a rational estimate of the fraction of walking 's metabolic cost that powers the actual walking movement . doubt is expressed that " comfortable speed of walking " is definable in energy terms . it is suggested that the requirements of maintaining balance while walking may determine both the comfortable speed of walking and the curvilinearity of the relationship between ground-speed and freely chosen step frequency of walking . 
characterization of muscarinic cholinergic receptors in cat tracheal gland cells . studies of airway glands indicate a muscarinic cholinergic regulation of secretion . because of the cellular complexity of the airways , receptor characterization in whole tissue is unfeasible . therefore , we utilized homogenates of disaggregated gland cells isolated from cat trachea and the muscarinic antagonist [ 1-3h ] quinuclidinyl benzilate ( [ 3h ] qnb ) to characterize glandular muscarinic receptors . receptors of isolated cells were functionally intact as assessed by carbachol ( 10 ( -4 ) m ) stimulation of o2 consumption 86 + / - 6 % ( + / - se , n = 20 ) . stimulation was dose dependent ( mean effective concentration = 3.5 microm ) , inhibited by atropine [ dissociation constant ( kd ) = 4.2 nm ] but not phentolamine nor propranolol . specific binding of [ 3h ] qnb to cell homogenates was saturable , of high affinity ( kd = 36 pm ) and to a single population of receptors . maximum binding was 58 fmol / 10 ( 6 ) cells or about 35 , 000 receptors per cell . estimated affinities for muscarinic agents were in the micromolar range for agonists and nanomolar range for antagonists . histamine , alpha-adrenergic , and beta-adrenergic agonists and antagonists did not inhibit specific binding . these results suggest that muscarinic receptors on tracheal gland cells are of high affinity and density . 
effect of perfusate hematocrit on urea permeability-surface area in isolated dog lung . seven dog lower left lung lobes were statically inflated and perfused at a constant rate for each lobe with a perfusate in which the hematocrit was altered over a wide range . the permeability-surface area of urea was calculated from multiple indicator dilution curves using two separate injectates for each hematocrit level . one injectate contained only 125i-albumin as the vascular reference tracer and the other contained both 51cr-erythrocytes and 125i-albumin as the vascular reference tracers ; both contained [ 14c ] urea as the permeating tracer . the results strongly indicate that the phenomenon of " erythrocyte trapping " of urea does not affect the calculation of urea permeability-surface area product provided the appropriate albumin-erythrocyte composite reference tracer is utilized in its calculation . 
nonuniformity of canine lung washout by high-frequency ventilation . ethane washout during low tidal volume ( 25-100 ml ) high-frequency ( 3-40 hz ) ventilation ( hfv ) was studied in seven excised dog lungs . the lungs were initially equilibrated with 1 % ethane , and then the concentration of ethane was monitored by mass spectrometry from multiple anatomic sites along the tracheobronchial tree during washout . we observed that the lung changed from a uniform distribution of ethane concentrations to a nonuniform distribution by a three-phase process . the first phase was nearly complete within the first 15 s and probably corresponds to concentration gradients being established in the central airways . during the second phase of washout , which lasted for several minutes , the concentrations in the various alveolar regions diverged . in the final phase , the regional concentrations remained at fixed ratios , and washout from all sites in the lung was at a constant fractional rate . these data are consistent with a model in which the duration of the second phase and the magnitude of the regional concentration differences established in this phase are dependent on both the magnitude of differences between regional transport paths and the nature of regional coupling by a common transport path to the airway opening . 
variable site of airway narrowing among obstructive sleep apnea patients . the purpose of this was to determine whether the site of physiological narrowing within the upper airway was uniform or differed among patients with obstructive sleep apnea . inspiratory pressures were measured with an esophageal balloon catheter and three catheters located at different sites along the upper airway : supralaryngeal airway , oropharynx , and nasopharynx . peak inspiratory pressure differences between catheters allowed assessment of pressure gradients across three airway segments : lungs-larynx-retroepiglottal airway ( esophageal-supralaryngeal pressure ) , hypopharynx ( supralaryngeal-oropharynx pressure ) , and transpalatal airway ( oropharynx-nasopharynx pressure ) . in five patients , hypopharyngeal obstruction was present , and in four patients no hypopharyngeal obstruction existed . in these four patients the site of obstruction was located at the level of the palate . in a given subject , the site of obstruction was the same during repeated measurements . the presence or absence of hypopharyngeal narrowing during sleep was not predictable from gradients measured across different segments of the upper airway during wakefulness . we conclude that the site of physiological upper airway obstruction varies among patients with obstructive sleep apnea and is not predictable from pressure measured during wakefulness . we speculate that uvulopalatopharyngoplasty may not relieve obstructive apneas in patients with hypopharyngeal obstruction . 
effect of hydration on plasma volume and endocrine responses to water immersion . to determine the effect of hydration on the early osmotic and intravascular volume and endocrine responses to water immersion the hematocrit , hemoglobin , plasma renin activity ( pra ) , and plasma electrolyte , aldosterone ( pa ) , and vasopressin ( pvp ) concentrations were measured during immersion following 24-h dehydration ; these were compared with corresponding values following rapid rehydration . six men and one woman ( age 23-46 yr ) underwent 45 min of standing immersion to the neck preceded by 45-min standing without immersion , first dehydrated , and then 105 min later after rehydration with water . immersion caused an isotonic expansion of the plasma volume ( p less than 0.001 ) , which occurred independently of hydration status . suppression of pra ( p less than 0.001 ) and pa ( p less than 0.001 ) during both immersions also occurred independently of hydration status . suppression of plasma vasopressin was observed during dehydrated immersion ( p less than 0.001 ) but not during rehydrated immersion . it is concluded that plasma tonicity is not a factor influencing pvp suppression during water immersion . 
induction of periodic breathing during sleep causes upper airway obstruction in humans . to test the hypothesis that occlusive apneas result from sleep-induced periodic breathing in association with some degree of upper airway compromise , periodic breathing was induced during non-rapid-eye-movement ( nrem ) sleep by administering hypoxic gas mixtures with and without applied external inspiratory resistance ( 9 cmh2o x l-1 x s ) in five normal male volunteers . in addition to standard polysomnography for sleep staging and respiratory pattern monitoring , esophageal pressure , tidal volume ( vt ) , and airflow were measured via an esophageal catheter and pneumotachograph , respectively , with the latter attached to a tight-fitting face mask , allowing calculation of total pulmonary system resistance ( rp ) . during stage i / ii nrem sleep minimal period breathing was evident in two of the subjects ; however , in four subjects during hypoxia and / or relief from hypoxia , with and without added resistance , pronounced periodic breathing developed with waxing and waning of vt , sometimes with apneic phases . resistive loading without hypoxia did not cause periodicity . at the nadir of periodic changes in vt , rp was usually at its highest and there was a significant linear relationship between rp and 1 / vt , indicating the development of obstructive hypopneas . in one subject without added resistance and in the same subject and in another during resistive loading , upper airway obstruction at the nadir of the periodic fluctuations in vt was observed . we conclude that periodic breathing resulting in periodic diminution of upper airway muscle activity is associated with increased upper airway resistance that predisposes upper airways to collapse . 
respiratory timing during nrem sleep in patients with occlusive sleep apnea . to study respiratory timing mechanisms in patients with occlusive apnea , inspiratory and expiratory times ( ti and te ) were calculated from the diaphragmatic electromyogram obtained in seven patients during non-rapid-eye-movement ( nrem ) sleep . peak diaphragmatic activity ( emgdi ) had a curvilinear relationship with ti during the ventilatory and occlusive phases such that ti shortened as emgdi decreased during the ventilatory phase ( r = 0.87 , p less than 0.05 ) and it prolonged as emgdi increased during the occlusive phase ( r = 0.89 , p less than 0.02 ) . however , emgdi vs . ti for the occlusive phase was shifted to the right of that for the ventilatory phase , reflecting the relatively longer ti during upper airway occlusion . ti also had a linear relationship with pleural pressure ( r = 0.94 , p less than 0.001 ) that remained unchanged during the ventilatory and occlusive phases such that it prolonged as negative inspiratory pressure increased . these results indicate that respiratory timing is continuously modified in patients with occlusive apnea as inspiratory neural drive fluctuates during nrem sleep and suggest that this modification is due to the net effects of changing inspiratory neural drive and afferent input predominantly from upper airway mechanoreceptors . 
epithelial modulation of tracheal smooth muscle response to antigenic stimulation . the role of the epithelium has been studied in the contractile responses of rat trachea . the different modulations observed are discussed in respect to vagal components of the epithelial layer . responses of rat trachea to immunologic stimulation are shown to be dependent on the presence of the epithelium , which prolongs the relaxation stage without affecting the contractions . this prolongation is abolished by neonatal capsaicin pretreatment , whereas substance p induces a significantly greater relaxation of serotonin-precontracted intact than deepithelialized trachea . serotonin concentration-response curves are shifted to the right in intact preparations , which is partly reversed by neonatal capsaicin pretreatment , but a hyporeactivity of the tissue exists . a relaxing factor released by the epithelium is hypothesized , possibly dependent on substance p-ergic innervation . muscarinic cholinergic innervation slightly modulates the contractions but not the relaxations in antigen-induced responses , independently on the presence of the epithelial layer . 4-aminopyridine induces epithelium-dependent potentiations of contractions to antigen and to serotonin , which involves acetylcholine at one step of the reaction cascade . epithelial-dependent contracting and relaxing factors are thus suggested in rat trachea . 
carbohydrate metabolism in fructose-fed and food-restricted running rats . in chronically catheterized rats hepatic glycogen was increased by fructose ( approximately 10 g / kg ) gavage ( ff rats ) or lowered by overnight food restriction ( fr rats ) . [ 3-3h ] - and [ u-14c ] glucose were infused before , during , and after treadmill running . during exercise the increase in glucose production ( ra ) was always directly related to work intensity and faster than the increase in glucose disappearance , resulting in increased plasma glucose levels . at identical work-loads the increase in ra and plasma glucose as well as liver glycogen breakdown were higher in ff and control ( c ) rats than in fr rats . breakdown of muscle glycogen was less in ff than in c rats . incorporation of [ 14c ] glucose in glycogen at rest and mobilization of label during exercise partly explained that 14c estimates of carbohydrate metabolism disagreed with chemical measurements . in some muscles glycogen depletion was not accompanied by loss of 14c and 3h , indicating futile cycling of glucose . in fr rats a postexercise increase in liver glycogen was seen with 14c / 3h similar to that of plasma glucose , indicating direct synthesis from glucose . in conclusion , in exercising rats the increase in glucose production is subjected to feedforward regulation and depends on the liver glycogen concentration . endogenous glucose may be incorporated in glycogen in working muscle and may be used directly for liver glycogen synthesis rather than after conversion to trioses . fructose ingestion may diminish muscular glycogen breakdown . the [ 14c ] glucose infusion technique for determination of muscular glycogenolysis is of doubtful value in rats . 
immunologic and nonimmunologic responsiveness in ragweed-sensitized dogs . the relationship between airway responsiveness to inhaled antigen and histamine , immunologic release of lung histamine , immunologic responsiveness of skin , and specific immunoglobulin e ( ige ) antibodies were examined in 11 inbred allergic dogs immunized with extracts of ragweed and grass and 5 nonimmunized control dogs from the same colony . airway responsiveness to antigen and histamine was characterized by the doses that increased the airflow resistance of the total respiratory system to twice the control values ( ed200 ) . highly significant correlations were found between airway responsiveness and cutaneous responsiveness to antigen and other immunologic characteristics ( e.g. , ige and histamine released from lung by inhaled antigen ) in all dogs . in ragweed-sensitized dogs , there was an inverse correlation between immunologic responsiveness ( reflected by the cutaneous response to antigen and histamine released from lung by inhaled antigen ) and nonimmunologic responsiveness of airways ( histamine ed200 : r = 0.73 , p less than 0.05 and r = 0.75 , p less than 0.01 , respectively ) . antigen ed200 was also correlated with histamine release from lung after antigen inhalation ( r = 0.74 ; p less than 0.01 ) . we conclude that airway reactions to inhaled antigen in allergic dogs are dependent not only on immunologic factors but also on the degree of nonimmunologic airway responsiveness to histamine and that these factors are correlated inversely . 
energetics of wet-suit diving in japanese male breath-hold divers . the present study was undertaken to investigate energy balance in professional male breath-hold divers in tsushima island , japan . in 4 divers , rectal ( tre ) and mean skin ( tsk ) temperatures and rate of o2 consumption ( vo2 ) were measured during diving work in summer ( 27 degrees c water ) and winter ( 14 degrees c water ) . thermal insulation and energy costs of diving work were estimated . in summer , comparisons were made of subjects clad either in wet suits ( protected ) or in swimming trunks ( unprotected ) , and in winter , they wore wet suits . the average tre in unprotected divers decreased to 36.4 + / - 0.2 degrees c at the end of 1-h diving work , but in protected divers it decreased to 37.2 + / - 0.3 degrees c in 2 h in summer and to 36.9 + / - 0.1 degree c in 1.5 h in winter . the average tsk of unprotected divers decreased to 28.0 + / - 0.6 degrees c in summer and that of protected divers decreased to 32.9 + / - 0.5 degrees c in summer and 28.0 + / - 0.3 degrees c in winter . average vo2 increased 190 % ( from 370 ml / min before diving to 1 , 070 ml / min ) in unprotected divers in summer , but in protected divers it rose 120 % ( from 360 to 780 ml / min ) in summer and 110 % ( from 330 to 690 ml / min ) in winter . overall thermal insulation ( tissue and wet suit ) calculated for protected divers was 0.065 + / - 0.006 degree c x kcal-1 x m-2 x h-1 in summer and 0.135 + / - 0.019 degree c x kcal-1 x m-2 x h-1 in winter . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
estimation of response curves in closed-loop physiological control . several recent reports have addressed the problem of estimating the response slope from repeated measurements of paired data when both stimulus and response variables are subject to biological variability . these earlier approaches suffer from several drawbacks : useful information about the relationships between the error components in a closed-loop system is not fully utilized ; the response intercept cannot be directly estimated ; and the normalization procedure required in some methods may fail under certain circumstances . this paper proposes a new , general method of simultaneously estimating the response slope and intercept from corrupted stimulus-response data when the errors in both variables are specifically related by the system structure . a direct extension of the least-squares approach , this method [ directed least squares ( dls ) ] reduces to ordinary least-squares methods when either of the measured variables is error free and to the reduced-major-axis ( rma ) method of kermack and haldane ( biometrics 37 : 30-41 , 1950 ) when the magnitudes of the normalized errors are equal . the dls estimators are scale invariant , statistically unbiased and always assume the minimum variance . with simple modifications , the method is also applicable to paired data . if , however , the relation between error components is uncertain , then the rma method is optimal , i.e. , having the least possible asymptotic bias and variance . these results are illustrated by using various types of closed-loop respiratory response data . 
changes in cross-bridge properties of sensitized airway smooth muscle . we have reported previously that in ovalbumin-sensitized canine tracheal smooth muscle ( tsm ) the maximum ability to shorten is increased . this could account for the increased airway narrowing seen in vivo in allergic bronchoconstriction . it was associated with increased velocity of shortening . we now report that , by using an electromagnetic muscle lever system , quick releases were applied to control and sensitized tsm at 0.5-s intervals throughout the course of a lightly preloaded 10-s isotonic contraction . from the records obtained it is possible to determine that , early in contraction , shortening is brought about by relatively rapidly cycling [ 0.35 optimal muscle length units + / - 0.033 / s ( se ) ] cross bridges . we also report that in the sensitized tsm it is the early bridges that increase their velocity by 26.6 % ( p less than 0.05 ) compared with similar bridges in muscles from control animals . since 70 % of the maximum shortening of the muscle occurs when early bridges are operative , it is likely that these bridges are responsible for the major part of the shortening . it is thus probable that increased allergic bronchoconstriction is produced by increased activity of early , rapidly cycling bridges . the bridges that are active late in the shortening show no difference between control and sensitized airway smooth muscles . 
effects of electrode location on myoelectric conduction velocity and median frequency estimates . the effect of surface electrode location on the estimates of the median frequency and conduction velocity of the myoelectric signal was investigated . the locations were identified with respect to the innervation zone and the tendonous portion of the tibialis anterior muscle . considerable modifications in the median frequency and conduction velocity parameters were noted . the highest values of the median frequency occurred at the region of the innervation zone and tendonous insertion of the muscle , and decreased proportionally with distance from these areas . the rate of change of median frequency was not effected by electrode location . estimates of conduction velocity were most stable in a region between the distal tendon and the adjacent innervation zone . this region also provided the best linear fit when comparing conduction velocity to median frequency estimates . the implications for signal detection procedures are discussed . 
bath rewarming from immersion hypothermia [ published erratum appears in j appl physiol 1986 dec ; 61 ( 6 ) : following 2314 ] trunk-only bath rewarming has often been recommended over whole-body bath rewarming as a method for the treatment of immersion hypothermia . at present , no report of a direct comparison of the relative merits of these techniques has been made . authorities in favor of trunk-only bath rewarming base their proposal on the assumption that core temperature afterdrop would be minimized by preventing peripheral vasodilation when the subject 's limbs are not immersed in the rewarming bath . in the present study , trunk-only and whole-body bath rewarming are compared by rewarming eight mildly hypothermic male subjects twice , once via each technique . it was concluded that trunk-only rewarming is not superior to whole-body bath rewarming as a therapy for mild immersion hypothermia , based on the findings that no significant differences existed between the two techniques , either in size or duration of core temperature afterdrop , or in rate of rewarming . 
control of respiratory activity of the genioglossus muscle in micrognathic infants . the genioglossus ( gg ) muscle activity of four infants with micrognathia and obstructive sleep apnea was recorded to assess the role of this tongue muscle in upper airway maintenance . respiratory air flow , esophageal pressure , and intramuscular gg electromyograms ( emg ) were recorded during wakefulness and sleep . both tonic and phasic inspiratory gg-emg activity was recorded in each of the infants . on occasion , no phasic gg activity could be recorded ; these silent periods were unassociated with respiratory embarrassment . gg activity increased during sigh breaths . gg activity also increased when the infants spontaneously changed from oral to nasal breathing and , in two infants , with neck flexion associated with complete upper airway obstruction , suggesting that gg-emg activity is influenced by sudden changes in upper airway resistance . during sleep , the gg-emg activity significantly increased with 5 % co2 breathing ( p less than or equal to 0.001 ) . with nasal airway occlusion during sleep , the gg-emg activity increased with the first occluded breath and progressively increased during the subsequent occluded breaths , indicating mechanoreceptor and suggesting chemoreceptor modulation . during nasal occlusion trials , there was a progressive increase in phasic inspiratory activity of the gg-emg that was greater than that of the diaphragm activity ( as reflected by esophageal pressure excursions ) . when pharyngeal airway closure occurred during a nasal occlusion trial , the negative pressure at which the pharyngeal airway closed ( upper airway closing pressure ) correlated with the gg-emg activity at the time of closure , suggesting that the gg muscle contributes to maintaining pharyngeal airway patency in the micrognathic infant . 
nitrogen gas exchange in the human knee . human decompression sickness is presumed to result from excess inert gas in the body when ambient pressure is reduced . although the most common symptom is pain in the skeletal joints , no direct study of nitrogen exchange in this region has been undertaken . for this study , nitrogen tagged with radioactive 13n was prepared in a linear accelerator . nine human subjects rebreathed this gas from a closed circuit for 30 min , then completed a 40- to 100-min washout period breathing room air . the isotope 13n was monitored continuously in the subject 's knee during the entire period using positron detectors . after correction for isotope decay ( half-life = 9.96 min ) , the concentration in most knees continued to rise for at least 30 min into the washout period . various causes of this unexpected result are discussed , the most likely of which is an extensive redistribution of gas within avascular knee tissues . 
distribution of cyclic amp phosphodiesterase in adipose tissue from trained rats . fat cells were isolated from sedentary and exercise trained female sprague-dawley rats and cyclic amp phosphodiesterase ( cyclic amp-pde ) activities were determined from crude homogenates of the fat cells in the whole homogenate , p5 , p48 , and s48 fractions . exercise training resulted in a significant increase in the mean specific activity of cyclic amp-pde ( pmol x min-1 x mg-1 ) from the whole homogenate and s48 fraction at cyclic amp concentrations of 4 , 8 , and 16 microm and in the p48 fraction at 8 and 16 microm cyclic amp . cyclic amp-pde kinetic plots according to lineweaver-burk for the calculation of michaelis constants ( km ) and maximum enzyme velocities ( vmax ) were nonlinear , indicating both a low and high enzyme form . the michaelis constants were significantly lower in trained rats than those of its control for the high km form of cyclic amp-pde in the whole and soluble fractions and for the low km form of the p5 particulate fraction . the vmax of the high km form of the p48 particulate fraction from trained animals was also significantly higher than that found in its control . phosphodiesterase inhibition by methylxanthines in the various fractions was similar in both trained and sedentary animals . these changes in specific activity , michaelis constants , and vmax of cyclic amp-pde from crude homogenates of isolated fat cells from exercise trained animals may account for the decreased intracellular levels of cyclic amp following catecholamine stimulation of isolated fat cells from trained rats . 
microcomputer monitor and blood sampler for free-diving weddell seals . the equipment used for the first sampling of arterial blood at depth on free-diving weddell seals leptonychotes weddelli is described . blood was withdrawn through an aortic catheter by a submersible , peristaltic roller pump and stored in a single- or multiple-sample collection device . the multiple sampler allowed up to eight individual blood samples to be collected during a single dive . the blood pump was controlled by a dedicated microcomputer that allowed initiation of blood sampling at flexible combinations of depth and / or time during either the descending or ascending phase of the dive . the dedicated microcomputer also recorded swimming depth , velocity , heart rate , and body temperature at selectable time intervals . these data were transmitted to a laboratory computer , and blood samples were retrieved , when the seal surfaced to breathe . 
arterial vs . rectal temperature in ponies : rest , exercise , co2 inhalation , and thermal stresses . we assessed in ponies the adequacy of using rectal ( tre ) rather than arterial temperature ( tar ) under conditions common to ventilatory control experiments , i.e. , co2 breathing , thermal stress , and particularly exercise . we were interested in whether , and to what extent , tar-tre differences could lead to errors in arterial blood gas corrections . at control environmental temperatures ( ta ) of 5 degrees c in the winter and 21 degrees c in the summer , tar and tre ( 37.1 degrees c ) did not differ ( p greater than 0.05 ) . elevating winter or summer ta by 10-18 degrees c for 2-days or lowering summer ta by 9 degrees c ( 2-days ) did not change tar or tre ( p greater than 0.05 ) . furthermore , elevating inspired pco2 to 42 torr for 15 min did not alter tar or tre from control ( p greater than 0.05 ) . during treadmill exercise , at 1.8 mph 5 % grade , tar and tre did not change significantly ( p greater than 0.05 ) from rest by 11 min of work . at 3 mph 5 % grade , tar increased progressively by 0.3 degrees c ( p less than 0.05 ) while tre tended to increase 0.1 degree c by 11 min . during moderate exercise at 6 mph 5 % grade , tar increased 0.9 degree c ( p less than 0.05 ) while tre increased 0.25 degree c ( p less than 0.05 ) . finally , by 6 min of heavy exercise at 8 mph 20 % grade , tar increased 2 degrees c ( p less than 0.05 ) while tre increased 0.5 degree c ( p less than 0.05 ) . the tar-tre differences during the latter three work loads were statistically significant ( p less than 0.01 ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
computation of respiratory heat exchanges . two sets of equations have been proposed to estimate the convective or sensible ( wcv ) and the evaporative or insensible ( wev ) respiratory heat exchanges . they are applicable both at sea-level barometric pressure with air breathing ( sla ) and in hypo- or hyperbaria in both air ( ha ) and artificial ( haa ) atmospheres . the only environmental parameters required are in sla : the temperature ( ti ) and the partial pressure of water vapor of the inspired air ( pih2o ) ; in ha : ti , pih2o , and the actual barometric pressure ( pb ) ; and in haa : it , pih2o , pb , the volumetric mass ( rho mix ) , and the specific heat ( cp mix ) of the breathed gas mixture . when no physiological data are available the results are expressed in energy units per liter of pulmonary ventilation ( wcv / v and wev / v ) in j x dm-3 btps . if the ventilation value ( v ) is known the results are obtained in units of power ( w ) . 
overestimation of sheep lung lymph contamination . we have previously reported that lymph from the chronic sheep lung lymph preparation contains 25-60 % lymph from nonpulmonary sources . in subsequent studies we found that the lymph flow rate from cannulated lymph vessels depends on the resistance and position of the lymph cannula . because we did not account for these factors in our estimate of the amount of nonpulmonary lymph in the sheep lung lymph preparation , our data were not accurate . we probably overestimated the amount of nonpulmonary lymph . however , the presence of nonpulmonary lymph remains a potentially serious problem with the sheep lung lymph preparation . 
an integrated model for the interaction of muscle relaxants with their antagonists . an integrated model describing the interaction of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents with reversible anticholinesterase agents is derived and compared with a naive model using experimental data obtained from four anesthetized dogs . three consecutive but separate steady-state d-tubocurarine blocks ( approximately 50 , 70 , and 90 % ) were induced in each of the four dogs and reversed by short edrophonium infusions . edrophonium arterial concentrations and twitch tension of the anterior tibialis muscle were measured . both the integrated and the naive model were fit to the twitch tension data using a model with a hypothetical " effect " compartment . the integrated model consistently fit the twitch tension data better than the naive model ; the sum of squared deviations was lower by 46 , 45 , 87 , and 69 % , respectively , with the integrated model than with the naive model . also , in contrast to the naive model , the integrated model is capable of describing the interaction of the anticholinesterase agent and the neuromuscular blocking agent when the concentration of either varies with time . 
lung volume changes during acute hypobaric hypoxia [ letter ] 
physiology : is it time to cross the new frontier ? 
effects of subanesthetic doses of inert gases on behavioral thermoregulation in mice . mice exposed to subanesthetic partial pressures of n2o ( 0.25 to 0.75 atm ) or n2 ( 5.7 or 11.33 atm ) and allowed to choose between a warm and a cool environment showed a marked preference for the cooler environment . this behavior was associated with the onset of hypothermia , with deep body temperature falling by up to about 3 degrees c , usually to a new , steady level . both the length of time spent in the cooler environment and the degree of the hypothermia produced increased with the partial pressure of n2o or n2 used . the effects of n2o on behavioral thermoregulation and body temperature were reversible . there was a correlation between anesthetic potency and the ability of both gases to alter thermoregulation , suggesting that the effect of these agents on thermoregulation was caused by the same molecular interactions as those which underlie anesthesia . since both gases elicited changes in behavioral thermoregulation promoting rather than opposing the onset of hypothermia , it is concluded that they may have acted to lower the level at which deep body temperature was being regulated . 
effect of systemic venous pressure elevation on lymph flow and lung edema formation . pulmonary lymph drains into the thoracic duct and then into the systemic venous circulation . since systemic venous pressure ( svp ) must be overcome before pulmonary lymph can flow , variations in svp may affect lymph flow rate and therefore the rate of fluid accumulation within the lung . the importance of this issue is evident when one considers the variety of clinical interventions that increase svp and promote pulmonary edema formation , such as volume infusion , positive-pressure ventilation , and various vasoactive drug therapies . we recorded pulmonary arterial pressure ( pap ) , left atrial pressure ( lap ) , and svp in chronic unanesthetized sheep . occlusion balloons were placed in the left atrium and superior vena cava to control their respective pressures . the superior vena caval occluder was placed above the azygos vein so that bronchial venous pressure would not be elevated when the balloon was inflated . three-hour experiments were carried out at various lap levels with and without svp being elevated to 20 mmhg . the amount of fluid present in the lung was determined by the wet-to-dry weight ratio method . at control lap levels , no significant difference in lung fluid accumulation could be shown between animals with control and elevated svp levels . when lap was elevated above control a significantly greater amount of pulmonary fluid accumulated in animals with elevated svp levels compared with those with control svp levels . we conclude that significant excess pulmonary edema formation will occur when svp is elevated at pulmonary microvascular pressures not normally associated with rapid fluid accumulation . 
active and passive respiratory mechanics in anesthetized dogs . in six spontaneously breathing anesthetized dogs ( pentobarbital sodium , 30 mg / kg ) airflow , volume , and tracheal and esophageal pressures were measured . the active and passive mechanical properties of the total respiratory system , lung , and chest wall were calculated . the average passive values of respiratory system , lung , and chest wall elastances amounted to , respectively , 50.1 , 32.3 , and 17.7 cmh2o x l-1 . resistive pressure-vs.-flow relationships for the relaxed respiratory system , lung , and chest wall were also determined ; a linear relationship was found for the former ( the total passive intrinsic resistance averaged 4.1 cmh2o x l-1 x s ) , whereas power functions best described the others : the pulmonary pressure-flow relationship exhibited an upward concavity , which for the chest wall presented an upward convexity . the average active elastance and resistance of the respiratory system were , respectively , 64.0 cmh2o x l-1 and 5.4 cmh2o x l-1 x s . the greater active impedance reflects pressure losses due to force-length and force-velocity properties of the inspiratory muscles and those due to distortion of the respiratory system from its relaxed configuration . 
longevity of cold-exposed rats : a reevaluation of the " rate-of-living theory " . it has been postulated that increased energy expenditure results in shortened survival . to test this " rate-of-living theory " we examined the effect of raising energy expenditure by means of cold exposure on the longevity of rats . male 6-mo-old spf long-evans rats were gradually accustomed to immersion in cool water ( 23 degrees c ) . after 3 mo they were standing in the cool water for 4 h / day , 5 days / wk . they were maintained on this program until age 32 mo . the cold exposure resulted in a 44 % increase in food intake ( p less than 0.001 ) . despite their greater food intake , the cold-exposed rats ' body weights were significantly lower than those of control animals from age 11 to 32 mo . the average age at death of the cold-exposed rats was 968 + / - 141 days compared with 923 + / - 159 days for the controls . the cold exposure appeared to protect against neoplasia , particularly sarcomas ; only 24 % of the necropsied cold-exposed rats had malignancies compared with 57 % for the controls . the results of this study provide no support for the concept that increased energy expenditure decreases longevity . 
dose-response curves of central and peripheral airways to nicotine injections in dogs . the dose-response curves of the central and peripheral airways to intravenously injected nicotine were studied in 55 anesthetized dogs . with intact vagi , nicotine caused a dose-dependent increase in central airway resistance ( rc ) similar to the increase in peripheral airway resistance ( rp ) at concentrations ranging from 4 to 64 micrograms / kg . however , the responses of both rc and rp fell progressively when sequential doses of nicotine greater than 256 micrograms / kg were administered . with intact vagi and the administration of propranolol , there was a greater increase in rp than in rc at a nicotine dose of 64 micrograms / kg ( p less than 0.05 ) . with vagotomy , the responsiveness of both central and peripheral airways to nicotine decreased with doses of nicotine less than 64 micrograms / kg , but with doses of nicotine greater than 256 micrograms / kg the suppressive effect of nicotine on both rc and rp was less than that seen with intact vagi . under conditions in which the vagi were cut and atropine administered , the responsiveness of nicotine was even further depressed . combinations either of atropine and chlorpheniramine or atropine and phenoxybenzamine also completely blocked reactions to nicotine . additionally reactions to nicotine were completely blocked by hexamethonium . these results suggest that nicotine increases both rc and rp mainly through a vagal reflex and stimulation of the parasympathetic ganglia . 
influence of beta-adrenergic blockade on the control of sweating in humans . to evaluate the role of beta-adrenergic receptors in the control of human sweating , we studied six subjects during 40 min of cycle-ergometer exercise ( 60 % maximal o2 consumption ) at 22 degrees c 2 h after oral administration of placebo or nonselective beta-blockade ( bb , 80 mg propranolol ) . internal temperature ( esophageal temperature , tes ) , mean skin temperature ( tsk ) , local chest temperature ( tch ) , and local chest sweat rate ( msw ) were continuously recorded . the control of sweating was best described by the slope of the linear relationship between msw and tes and the threshold tes for the onset of sweating . the slope of the msw-tes relationship decreased 27 % ( p less than 0.01 ) , from 1.80 to 1.30 mg x cm-2 x min-1 x degree c-1 during bb . the tes threshold for sweating ( 36.8 degrees c ) was not altered as the result of bb . these data suggest that bb modified the control of sweating via some peripheral interaction . since tsk was significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) reduced during bb exercise , from a control value of 32.8 to 32.2 degrees c , we evaluated the influence of the reduction in local skin temperature ( tsk ) in the altered control of sweating . reductions in tch accounted for only 45 % of the decrease in the slope of the msw-tes relationship during bb . since evaporative heat loss requirement during exercise with bb , as estimated from the energy balance equation , was also reduced 18 % , compared with control exercise , we concluded that during bb the reduction in sweating at any tes is the consequence of both a decrease in local tsk and a direct effect on sweat gland . 
effect of hemorrhage on regional morphometric indexes of cerebral capillarity . this study was performed to determine whether the brain can increase the number of perfused capillaries and arterioles supplying it regionally during hemorrhage . this was done using a technique to simultaneously determine total and perfused regional arteriolar and capillary morphology . conscious long-evans rats served as unbled controls or were bled 65 mmhg or to 40-45 mmhg and stabilized for 30 min . regional cerebral blood flow was determined using [ 14c ] iodoantipyrine in half of these animals and fluorescein isothiocyanate-dextran was injected in the other half for determination of perfused cerebral microvascular morphometric indexes . the total microvasculature was labeled postmortem via an alkaline phosphatase stain . regional cerebral blood flow was significantly increased in animals bled to 65 mmhg . during hemorrhage to 40-45 mmhg , cerebral blood flow was reduced 50 % ( from 59 + / - 28 to 26 + / - 11 ml x min-1 x 100 g-1 , mean + / - sd ) with no regional redistribution . for all treatments , total capillary density ranged from 400 to 500 capillaries / mm2 , and in controls 47 % were perfused . animals bled to 65 mmhg did not mobilize their unperfused microvascular reserve even though they showed a slight tendency to do so . during hemorrhage to 40-45 mmhg , this percent increased significantly to 57 % with the largest increase occurring in the pons . approximately 51 % of arterioles were perfused in controls and this was not different compared with the percent perfused during hemorrhage . despite the overall lack of mobilization of unperfused arterioles , some regions within the brain significantly mobilized their reserves with severe hemorrhage , e.g. , hippocampus ( 78 % ) , hypothalamus ( 67 % ) , and medulla ( 73 % ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
arterial elasticity and physical working capacity in young men . we have tested the hypothesis that there is a positive relation between arterial elasticity and physical working capacity ( pwc ) at a given age . the subjects were 28 young men , 16-18 yr old . arterial elasticity was evaluated by measuring the carotid to femoral pulse-wave velocity ( c ) at rest . the slope , s ( c ) of the relation between c and the diastolic blood pressure was studied during a cold pressor test to test vascular reactivity . the relationship between heart rate ( hr ) and work load was determined using a cycle ergometer ; the variables measured were the slope of this relation s ( pwc ) and the power output at a hr of 170 min-1 ( pwc170 ) . the pwc170 ranged from 1.8 to 4.6 w / kg , and values of c ranged from 3.9 to 6.8 m / s . a strong inverse linear relation was found between c and pwc170 ( r = -0.76 ) , whereas the hr at rest was positively related to both c ( r = 0.68 ) and pwc170 ( r = 0.74 ) . there was no relationship between hr at rest and the slopes s ( c ) and s ( pwc ) ; the latter two variables depend mainly on the sympathetic response . these results show the importance of the intrinsic mechanical properties of the cardiovascular system , particularly arterial elasticity , in human adaptations to muscular exercise . 
ventilatory changes of pulmonary capillary blood volume assessed by arterial density . by use of an improved density measuring system , we found that the gravimetric density of arterial blood of dogs fluctuates at the same frequency as the spontaneous or mechanical ventilation . similar density fluctuations were observed in the blood leaving isolated , perfused lobes of dogs that were ventilated cyclicly . employing an analysis that balanced the erythrocyte and plasma flows through distensible capillaries containing blood with a tube hematocrit lower than the hematocrit in large blood vessels , we derived a relationship to estimate from the density fluctuation the change in pulmonary capillary blood volume ( vc ) . for mechanical ventilation , the maximum change in density over one ventilation cycle increased from 0.084 + / - 0.01 to 0.47 + / - 0.05 ( se ) g / l as the frequency decreased from 29 to 6 cycles / min . these density changes were estimated to be the result of an 1-16 % change in vc . a larger tidal volume for the mechanical ventilation led to a larger density fluctuation . the maximum density change of spontaneous respiration of 6 cycles / min was one-sixth of the mechanical case , indicating a much smaller change in vc during spontaneous respiration . when the airway flow resistance was increased for spontaneous respiration , larger density fluctuations were observed . 
skeletal muscle hypertrophy in rats having growth hormone-secreting tumor . plantaris muscle hypertrophy resulting from surgical ablation of the synergistic gastrocnemius muscle was compared between nontumor- and gh3 tumor-bearing rat groups ( n = 8-10 ) . gh3 cells ( 10 ( 6 ) ) were subcutaneously injected into 150-g female wistar-furth rats to initiate the tumor . after 17 days , the tumor-bearing rats gained 5.7 g body wt / day compared with 2.0 for the nontumor-bearing rats . the left gastrocnemius muscle was surgically removed from both nontumor and tumor groups . the gastrocnemius was removed from the tumor group after an increased growth rate was achieved . seven days after surgery , the animals were killed and plantaris muscles were removed . the wet weight of the left plantaris muscle increased 45.6 and 44.0 % over the unoperated contralateral control ( right side ) in the nontumor and tumor groups , respectively . the right control plantaris muscle in the tumor group was 63 % heavier than the right control plantaris from the nontumor group ; however , the proportion of body weight for plantaris was similar between the two groups . the effect of gastrocnemius ablation and tumor treatment on plantaris weight was additive , and the percent increase over the unoperated contralateral control side was similar between the two groups . these data demonstrate that skeletal muscle hypertrophy occurs in adult animals in which growth has been stimulated by a growth hormone-secreting tumor and could suggest that the muscle growth response caused by the tumor is operating by a mechanism different than work-induced hypertrophy . 
effect of rib cage and abdominal restriction on total respiratory resistance and reactance . in 14 healthy male subjects we studied the effects of rib cage and abdominal strapping on lung volumes , airway resistance ( raw ) , and total respiratory resistance ( rrs ) and reactance ( xrs ) . rib cage , as well as abdominal , strapping caused a significant decrease in vital capacity ( respectively , -36 and -34 % ) , total lung capacity ( tlc ) ( -31 and -27 % ) , functional residual capacity ( frc ) ( -28 and -28 % ) , and expiratory reserve volume ( -40 and -48 % ) and an increase in specific airway conductance ( +24 and +30 % ) and in maximal expiratory flow at 50 % of control tlc ( +47 and +42 % ) . the decrease of residual volume ( rv ) was significant ( -12 % ) with rib cage strapping only . abdominal strapping resulted in a minor overall increase in rrs , whereas rib cage strapping produced a more marked increase at low frequencies ; thus a frequency dependence of rrs was induced . a similar pattern , but with lower absolute values , of rrs was obtained by thoracic strapping when the subject was breathing at control frc . xrs was decreased , especially at low frequencies , with abdominal strapping and even more with thoracic strapping ; thus the resonant frequency of the respiratory system was shifted toward higher frequencies . partitioning rrs and xrs into resistance and reactance of lungs and chest wall demonstrated that the different effects of chest wall and abdominal strapping on rrs and xrs reflect changes mainly of chest wall mechanics . 
respiratory distress and surfactant inhibition following vagotomy in rabbits . we used the model of bilateral cervical vagotomy of adult rabbits to cause respiratory failure characterized by pulmonary edema , decreased lung compliance , and atelectasis . we documented an 18-fold increase in radiolabeled albumin leak from the vascular space into alveolar washes of vagotomy vs . sham-operated rabbits ( p less than 0.01 ) . despite a twofold increase in percent of prelabeled saturated phosphatidylcholine secreted ( p less than 0.01 ) , the alveolar wash saturated phosphatidylcholine pool sizes were not different . the minimum surface tensions were 19.6 + / - 2.5 vs . 9.4 + / - 2.2 dyn / cm for alveolar washes from vagotomy and control rabbits , respectively ( p less than 0.01 ) . the soluble proteins from alveolar washes inhibited the surface tension lowering properties of natural surfactant , whereas those from the control rabbits did not ( p less than 0.01 ) . when vagotomy rabbits in respiratory failure were treated with 50 mg natural surfactant lipid per kilogram arterial blood gas values and compliances improved relative to control rabbits . vagotomy results in alveolar pulmonary edema , and surfactant dysfunction despite normal surfactant pool sizes and respiratory failure . a surfactant treatment can improve the respiratory failure . 
skeletal muscle characteristics in sedentary black and caucasian males . twenty-three male black african and 23 male caucasian subjects , ascertained as sedentary , participated in this study designed to determine whether there were differences in skeletal muscle histochemical and biochemical characteristics between racial groups . muscle fiber type proportions ( i , iia , and iib ) , fiber areas and activities of several enzyme markers of different energy metabolic pathways were determined from a biopsy of the vastus lateralis . results indicated that caucasians had a higher percent type i ( 8 % , p less than 0.01 ) and a lower percent type iia ( 6.7 % , p less than 0.05 ) fiber proportions than africans . no significant differences were observed between the two racial groups in the type iib fiber proportion or in the three fiber type areas . enzymes catalyzing reactions in phosphagenic [ creatine kinase ( ck ) ] and glycolytic [ hexokinase ( hk ) , phosphofructokinase ( pfk ) , and lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh ) ] metabolic pathways had significantly higher activities ( about 30-40 % ) in the black african group than in the caucasian group ( p less than 0.01 ) . no significant difference was noted in the activities of oxidative enzymes [ malate dehydrogenase ( mdh ) , oxoglutarate dehydrogenase ( ogdh ) , and 3-hydroxyacyl-coa dehydrogenase ( hadh ) ] . consequently , the pfk / ogdh ratio was significantly elevated in africans ( p less than 0.05 ) . the racial differences observed between africans and caucasians in fiber type proportion and enzyme activities of the phosphagenic and glycolytic metabolic pathways may well result from inherited variation . these data suggest that sedentary male black individuals are , in terms of skeletal muscle characteristics , well endowed for sport events of short duration . 
effects of adenosine on ventilatory responses to hypoxia and hypercapnia in humans . adenosine infusion ( 100 micrograms x kg-1 x min-1 ) in humans stimulates ventilation but also causes abdominal and chest discomfort . to exclude the effects of symptoms and to differentiate between a central and peripheral site of action , we measured the effect of adenosine infused at a level ( 70-80 micrograms x kg-1 x min-1 ) below the threshold for symptoms . resting ventilation ( ve ) and progressive ventilatory responses to isocapnic hypoxia and hyperoxic hypercapnia were measured in six normal men . compared with a control saline infusion given single blind on the same day , adenosine stimulated ve [ mean increase : 1.3 + / - 0.8 ( sd ) l / min ; p less than 0.02 ] , lowered resting end-tidal pco2 ( petco2 ) ( mean fall : -3.9 + / - 0.9 torr ) , and increased heart rate ( mean increase : 16.1 + / - 8.1 beats / min ) without changing systemic blood pressure . adenosine increased the hypoxic ventilatory response ( control : -0.68 + / - 0.4 l x min-1 x % sao2-1 , where % sao2 is percent of arterial o2 saturation ; adenosine : -2.40 + / - 1.2 l x min-1 x % sao2-1 ; p less than 0.01 ) measured at a mean petco2 of 38.3 + / - 0.6 torr but did not alter the hypercapnic response . this differential effect suggests that adenosine may stimulate ventilation by a peripheral rather than a central action and therefore may be involved in the mechanism of peripheral chemoreception . 
effects of digoxin on diaphragmatic strength generation . contrary to hindlimb muscle , extracellular calcium plays an important role in diaphragmatic strength generation ( j . appl . physiol . 58 : 2054-61 , 1985 ) . since the inotropic effect of digitalis appears to be related to cell membrane transport of calcium , we studied the effect of digoxin on diaphragmatic contractility in 20 anesthetized dogs . the diaphragm was electrically stimulated with intramuscular electrodes . the transdiaphragmatic pressure ( pdi ) during supramaximal ( 50 v ) 2-s stimulations applied over a frequency range of 10-100 hz was measured with balloon catheters at functional residual capacity . cardiac output was measured with a swan-ganz catheter and diaphragmatic blood flow ( qdi ) by timed volume collections of left inferior venous effluent . the force generated by the sartorius muscle during electrical stimulations was studied concomitantly to pdi . in 10 dogs ( group a ) 0.04 mg / kg of digoxin was infused in 10 min . in 10 other dogs ( group b ) 0.2 mg / kg was administered . all measurements were performed during control and 30 , 60 , 90 , and 120 min after digoxin administration . in group a , digoxin plasmatic level at 60 min reached a therapeutic range in all dogs ( 1.8 + / - 0.3 ng / ml ) , whereas in group b , digoxin plasmatic level was higher ( 8 + / - 1.3 ng / ml ) . no significant change in cardiac output and qdi was noted after administration of digoxin , either in the dogs of group a or those of group b . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
diaphragmatic contractility after upper abdominal surgery . postoperative dysfunction of the diaphragm has been reported after upper abdominal surgery . this study was designed to determine whether an impairment in diaphragmatic contractility was involved in the genesis of the diaphragmatic dysfunction observed after upper abdominal surgery . five patients undergoing upper abdominal surgery were studied . the following measurements were performed before and 4 h after surgery : vital capacity ( vc ) , functional residual capacity ( frc ) , and forced expiratory volume in 1 s . diaphragmatic function was also assessed using the ratio of changes in gastric pressure ( delta pga ) over changes in transdiaphragmatic pressure ( delta pdi ) . finally contractility of the diaphragm was determined by measuring the change in delta pdi generated during bilateral electrical stimulation of the phrenic nerves ( pdi stim ) . diaphragmatic dysfunction occurred in all the patients after upper abdominal surgery as assessed by a marked decrease in delta pga / delta pdi from 0.480 + / - 0.040 to -0.097 + / - 0.152 ( p less than 0.01 ) 4 h after surgery compared with preoperative values . vc also markedly decreased after upper abdominal surgery from 3 , 900 + / - 630 to 2 , 060 + / - 520 ml ( p less than 0.01 ) 4 h after surgery . in contrast , no change in frc and pdi stim was observed 4 h after surgery . in contrast , no change in frc and pdi stim was observed 4 h after upper abdominal surgery compared with the preoperative values . we conclude that contractility of the diaphragm is not altered after upper abdominal surgery , and diaphragmatic dysfunction is secondary to other mechanisms such as possible reflexes arising from the periphery ( chest wall and / or peritoneum ) , which could inhibit the phrenic nerve output . 
sex and training differences in human growth hormone levels during prolonged exercise . human growth hormone ( hgh ) levels were measured during rest , prolonged treadmill exercise at 60 % maximum o2 uptake ( vo2max ) , and immediate recovery in four groups of subjects ( n = 7 / group ) , ages 21-30 yr , classified as male runners ( mr ) , female runners ( fr ) , male controls ( mc ) , and female controls ( fc ) to determine whether sex differences in the hgh response are related to resting 17 beta-estradiol ( e2 ) and / or cardiorespiratory endurance ( cre ) . glucose ( glc ) , e2 , and hgh levels were determined from serial blood samples taken from an intravenous catheter . glc did not change significantly during exercise , but different trends for the runners ( increases ) vs . controls ( decreases ) resulted in higher ( p less than 0.01 ) postexercise levels in the runners . resting hgh was higher ( p less than 0.05 ) in the frs and fcs than the mrs and mcs , respectively , and continued to be higher in the fcs ( vs . mcs ) during the first 30 min of exercise . the mrs achieved higher peak hgh levels and exhibited higher values than the mcs throughout exercise and recovery . there were no statistically significant training differences in the females . the strongest predictors for peak hgh were absolute work load and group ( runners vs . controls ) , both of which combined accounted for 32-36 % of the variability ( p less than 0.01 ) in hgh response . significant sex-related variables ( sex , resting e2 ) accounted for 11-19 % of the variability in peak or percent change in hgh , with e2 having a positive effect at rest but a negative effect during exercise . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
pulmonary vascular compliance and viscoelasticity . when dog lung lobes were perfused at constant arterial inflow rate , occlusion of the venous outflow ( vo ) produced a rapid jump in venous pressure ( pv ) followed by a slower rise in both arterial pressure ( pa ) and pv . during the slow rise pa ( t ) and pv ( t ) tended to converge and become concave upward as the volume of blood in the lungs increased . we compared the dynamic vascular volume vs . pressure curves obtained after vo with the static volume vs . pressure curves obtained by dye dilution . the slope of the static curve ( the static compliance , cst ) was always larger than the slope of the dynamic curve ( the dynamic compliance , cdyn ) . in addition , the cdyn decreased with increasing blood flow rate . when venous occlusion ( vo ) was followed after a short time interval by arterial occlusion ( ao ) such that the lobe was isovolumic , both pa and pv fell with time to a level that was below either pressure at the instant of ao . in an attempt to explain these observations a compartmental model was constructed in which the hemodynamic resistance and vascular compliance were volume dependent and the vessel walls were viscoelastic . these features of the model could account for the convergence and upward concavity of the pa and pv curves after vo and the pressure relaxation in the isovolumic state after ao , respectively . according to the model analysis , the difference between cst and cdyn and the flow dependence of cdyn are due to wall viscosity and volume dependence of compliance , respectively . model analysis also suggested ways of evaluating changes in the viscoelasticity of the lobar vascular bed . hypoxic vasoconstriction that increased total vascular resistance also decreased cst and cdyn and appeared to increase the vessel wall viscosity . 
relationship between diaphragm length and abdominal dimensions . we examined the relationship between changes in abdominal cross-sectional area , measured by respiratory inductive plethysmography , and changes in length in the costal and crural parts of the diaphragm , measured by sonomicrometry , in nine supine , anesthetized dogs . during passive inflation , both parts of the diaphragm shortened and abdominal cross-sectional area increased . during passive deflation , both parts of the diaphragm lengthened and abdominal cross-sectional area decreased . we subsequently used the relationship between costal and crural diaphragmatic length , respectively , and abdominal cross-sectional area during passive inflation-deflation to predict the length changes in the costal and crural diaphragm during quiet breathing before and after bilateral phrenicotomy . in the intact animal the inspiratory shortening in the crural diaphragm was almost invariably greater than predicted from the relationship during passive inflation . during inspiration after phrenicotomy the crural diaphragm invariably lengthened , whereas the costal diaphragm often shortened . in general there was a good correlation between the measured and predicted length change for the crural diaphragm ( r = 0.72 before and 0.79 after phrenicotomy ) and a poor one for the costal diaphragm ( r = 0.05 before and 0.19 after phrenicotomy ) . 
lymph flow and lung weight in isolated sheep lungs . to study the relationship between lung weight and lymph flow , we used an in situ , isolated sheep lung preparation that allowed these two variables to be measured simultaneously . all lungs were perfused for 4.5 h at a constant rate of 100 ml x min-1 x kg-1 . in control lungs , the left atrial pressure ( pla ) was kept at atmospheric pressure . in experimental lungs , pla was kept atmospheric except for a 50-min elevation to 18 mmhg midway through the perfusion . during this period of left atrial hypertension , pulmonary arterial pressure rose from 18 to 31 mmhg , lymph flow rose from 3 to 12 ml / h , and the lymph-to-plasma oncotic pressure ratio ( pi l / pi p ) fell from 0.7 to 0.48 . after left atrial pressure was returned to control , pulmonary arterial pressure , lymph flow , and pi l / pi p all returned to control levels . the rate of weight gain after the return of left atrial pressure to control was also the same as that in the control group . however , during the period of left atrial hypertension 135 ml of fluid were filtered into the lung , and this large increase in lung weight remained after the pressure was lowered . the presence of this substantial excess lung water despite control values for vascular pressures , lymph flow , rate of weight gain , and pi l / pi p suggests that the absolute amount of lung water has little influence on the dynamic aspects of lung fluid balance . these results are consistent with a two-compartment model of the interstitial space , where only one of the compartments is readily drained by the lymphatics . 
co2 elimination by high-frequency oscillation : effects of vagosympathetic stimulation . the effects of electrical stimulation of the vagi on gas transport mediated by high-frequency , low tidal volume ventilation ( hfv ) was examined in 10 anesthetized , paralyzed , propranolol-treated dogs . gas transport efficiency was estimated by measuring the rate of co2 removed from the lungs ( vco2 ) achieved during 45-s bursts of hfv applied before ( control 1 ) , during , and after ( control 2 ) electrical stimulation of the transected vagi . during vagal stimulation the heart rate was maintained by electrical pacing . during the 15-s phase of vagal stimulation pulmonary impedance increased from 3.6 + / - 0.7 to 6.2 + / - 2.2 cmh2o x l-1 x s , and vco2 increased . when the electrical stimulation of the vagi was stopped , impedance and vco2 returned to prestimulation values . vco2 was always higher during electrical stimulation of the vagi when hfv of a fixed volume was applied over a range of frequencies or when a fixed oscillation frequency was used over a range of tidal volumes . the effects of vagal stimulation on hfv-mediated gas transport were quite similar to the effects of moving the locations of the bias flow inlet and outlet into the lung such that tracheal volume was decreased by 20 ml , an amount equivalent to estimated change in control airway volume thought to occur during vagal stimulation . we simulated the effects of vagal stimulation and decreased tracheal volume on vco2 by using a previously described model of hfv-mediated gas transport . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
atropine unmasks bed-rest effect : a spectral analysis of cardiac interbeat intervals . bed-rest deconditioning is suspected to reduce cardiac reserve , possibly by impairing autonomic function . heart rate response in normal subjects reveals considerable variability , reflected by a relatively broadband interbeat interval power spectrum . a reduction in this autonomically modulated variability would be predicted to cause a narrowing of the spectrum . we retrospectively analyzed data from 10 aerobically conditioned men ( age range 35-49 yr ) who had undergone orthostatic tolerance testing with lower body negative pressure pre-bed rest and after 7-10 days of bed rest , while on placebo and after intravenous atropine . spectra were derived by fourier analysis of 128 interbeat interval data sets . spectral power was estimated by computing the root-mean-square ( rms ) values ( mean + / - sd ) for the band encompassing the 2nd to 64th harmonics from subjects with a sufficient number of beats : placebo rms is 93 + / - 33 ms for pre-bed rest and 84 + / - 38 ms for bed rest ( ns , n = 6 ) ; atropine rms is 63 + / - 24 ms for pre-bed rest and 40 + / - 23 ms for bed rest ( p less than 0.01 ; n = 7 ) . these data suggest that atropine " unmasks " a deconditioning effect of bed rest in athletic men , evidenced by a reduction in interbeat interval spectral power not apparent with placebo . spectral analysis offers a useful means of quantitating the effects of bed-rest deconditioning and autonomic perturbations on cardiac dynamics . 
effects of dextran-bound inhibitors on carbonic anhydrase activity in isolated rat lungs . effects of macromolecular prontosil-dextran inhibitors ( pd ) on carbonic anhydrase ( ca ) activity in isolated rat lungs were studied . isolated lungs were perfused with krebs-ringer bicarbonate ( krb ) solutions containing no inhibitor , pd 100 , 000 ( mol wt 100 , 000 ) , pd 5 , 000 ( mol wt 5 , 000 ) , or low-molecular-weight inhibitors ( prontosil or acetazolamide ) . the time course of effluent perfusate ph equilibration was measured in a stop-flow ph electrode apparatus . pulmonary co2 excretion ( vco2 ) was monitored by continuously recording expired co2 concentration . the lungs were ventilated with room air and perfused at 37 degrees c with krb prebubbled with 5 % co2- 20 % o2- 75 % n2 . the results obtained show that both the low-molecular-weight inhibitors and pd 's caused postcapillary ph disequilibria ( delta ph ) in effluent perfusate . however , only acetazolamide and prontosil caused a reduction in vco2 . these results suggest that there is an intravascular ca , presumably associated with endothelial cell membranes , that is accessible to all inhibitors used and is responsible in part for equilibration of the co2- hco3- -h+ reactions in the perfusate but , under the conditions used , does not affect co2 excretion ; and there is an extravascular ( possibly intracellular ) ca that can be inhibited by low-molecular-weight inhibitors , is primarily responsible for enhanced co2 transfer across the alveolar-capillary barrier ( perhaps via facilitation of co2 diffusion ) , and is in part responsible for ph equilibration . 
effect of expiratory loading on expiratory duration and pulmonary stretch receptor discharge . slowly adapting pulmonary stretch receptors have been hypothesized to be the afferents mediating the vagally dependent , volume-related prolongation of expiratory time ( te ) during expiratory loading . it has been further suggested that the vagal component of this prolongation of te is due to the temporal summation of pulmonary stretch receptor ( psr ) activity during expiratory loading . this hypothesis was tested in rabbits exposed to resistive and elastic single-breath expiratory loading while psr 's were simultaneously recorded . both types of loads resulted in a decreased expired volume ( ve ) and increased expiratory duration ( te ) . the te for resistive loads were significantly greater than for elastic loads for equivalent ve . thus two different ve-te relationships were found for resistive and elastic loads . when te was plotted against the area under the expired volume trajectory , a single linear relationship was observed . psr activity recorded during expiratory loading increased as ve decreased and te increased . a single linear relationship resulted when the number of psr spikes during the expiration was plotted against the associated te for all types of loads . these findings demonstrate that the volume-related prolongation of te with single-breath expiratory loads is associated with an increase in psr discharge . these results support the hypothesis that the vagal component of load-dependent prolongation of te is a function of both the temporal and spatial summation of psr activity during the expiratory phase . 
effect of posture on vital capacity . the influence of some extreme body postures on vital capacity ( vc ) was examined in young adult humans . two postures required full support of body weight by the arms : arms up , hanging from a bar , and arms down with hands gripping parallel bars . three involved muscles that flex and extend the trunk : a partial sit-up position while supine and nearly maximal spinal extension and flexion while standing . changes at the inspiratory and expiratory volume extremes were recognized by having the subjects do two vc efforts : the first standing and the second in the posture in question while continuing to breathe on the spirometer . control observations in which the second of a vc pair was performed in an unstressed posture allowed correction for the influence of rebreathing . the changes in corrected vc were small , the greatest being an average reduction of approximately 8 % in the partial sit-up position . during full support of body weight by the arms , the vc was slightly increased due to a significant increase in the inspiratory extreme and no change in the expiratory extreme . spinal extension produced small increases in lung volume at both extremes with no significant change in vc , whereas spinal flexion did not influence the upper extreme but did increase lung volume at the lower extreme . the changes are discussed in terms of trunk muscle action . 
distortion of calculated whole-body hematocrit during lower-body immersion in water . we found a difference between the venous hematocrits of immersed and nonimmersed arms during immersion of the lower body in cold water but not during a comparable exposure to warm water . fourteen healthy men were exposed to three different experimental conditions : arm immersion , body immersion , and control . the men always sat upright while both upper extremities hung vertically at their sides . during arm immersion , one forearm was completely immersed for 30 min in either cold water ( 28 degrees c , n = 7 ) or warm water ( 38 degrees c , n = 7 ) . this cold-warm water protocol was repeated on separate days for exposure to the remaining conditions of body immersion ( immersion of 1 forearm and all tissues below the xiphoid process ) and control ( no immersion ) . blood samples were simultaneously drawn from cannulated veins in both antecubital fossae . hematocrit difference ( hct diff ) was measured by subtracting the nonimmersed forearm 's hematocrit ( hct dry ) from the immersed forearm 's hematocrit ( hct wet ) . hct diff was approximately zero when the men were exposed to the control condition and body immersion in warm water . in the remaining conditions , hct wet dropped below hct dry ( p less than 0.01 , 3-way analysis of variance ) . the decrements of hct diff showed there were differences between venous hematocrits in immersed and nonimmersed regions of the body , indicating that changes of the whole-body hematocrit cannot be calculated from a large-vessel hematocrit soon after immersing the lower body in cold water . 
respiratory muscle interaction during nrem sleep in patients with occlusive apnea . to study respiratory muscle interaction in patients with occlusive apnea , diaphragmatic electromyogram ( emgdi ) and gastric , pleural , and transdiaphragmatic pressures ( pga , ppl , and pdi , respectively ) were studied in seven patients during non-rapid-eye-movement ( nrem ) sleep . diaphragmatic force output , as assessed by pdi , followed the periodic changes in emgdi but during the occlusive phase the increase in pdi was more than the increase in emgdi . this increase in pdi was essentially due to an increase in ppl , since pga and emgdi had a linear relationship ( r = 0.98 , p less than 0.001 ) that did not change during the occlusive and ventilatory phases . abdominal muscle recruitment evident in pga and abdominal motion tracings during the occlusive phase when paradoxical rib cage motion was observed suggested that this increase in diaphragmatic efficiency was likely due to a change in diaphragmatic length-tension characteristics . these results demonstrate that , in patients with occlusive apneas , the diaphragm is the predominant respiratory muscle during nrem sleep and that its function is supported by abdominal muscle recruitment . 
role of the nose in resistive load detection . previous resistive load detection ( rld ) studies have ignored the nose , the usual route of breathing . weber 's law predicts the delta r50 ( the added load detectable on 50 % of presentations ) to be a fixed percent of the background resistance ( r0 ) and thus the delta r50 / r0 ratio ( the weber fraction ) is constant . we have noted the nose to be sensitive to added load , we wondered if the nose might play a role in rld . to determine whether this was true and to characterize the effects of changes in r0 in the range of normal nasal resistance ( rn ) , we determined r0 and delta r50 using standard techniques under the following conditions : nose vs . decongested nose , nose vs . nose with added external r0 ( 3.0 and 8.0 cmh2o x l-1 x s ) , nose vs . anesthetized nose , nose vs . mouth , and mouth vs . mouth with added load ( 3 cmh2o x l-1 x s ) . we found that decongestant decreased rn [ 4.3 + / - 0.6 ( se ) to 3.1 + / - 0.5 cmh2o x l-1 x s , p less than 0.05 ] and delta r50 ( 1.7 + / - 0.5 to 1.1 + / - 0.3 cmh2o x l-1 x s , p less than 0.05 ) . when an external load of 3 cmh2o x l-1 x s was added to the nose , delta r50 did not change significantly ( 1.4 + / - 0.2 to 1.1 + / - 0.2 cmh2o x l-1 x s ) , but the weber fraction decreased ( 0.28 + / - 0.05 to 0.15 + / - 0.03 , p less than 0.02 ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
adrenergic and local control of o2 uptake during and after severe hypoxia . the distribution of whole-body o2 supply during severe hypoxia and recovery and its relation to the regional distribution of o2 deficit and repayment was studied . mongrel dogs were anesthetized , paralyzed , and ventilated to maintain an end-tidal pco2 between 35 and 40 torr . in one group , the alpha- and beta-adrenergic receptors were blocked to eliminate neural and humoral adrenergic influences . in a second group , alpha-adrenergic receptors were stimulated to decrease o2 delivery by excessive vasoconstriction . in a third group , beta-adrenergic receptors were stimulated to increase o2 delivery . whole-body and hindlimb muscle o2 uptake and vascular responses were measured during normoxic control , 15 or 30 min of severe hypoxia ( 9 % o2 in n2 ) , and 20 or 30 min of normoxic recovery , respectively . the whole-body o2 deficit and excess o2 uptake in recovery were partitioned into muscle and nonmuscle areas . the data showed that neural or humoral influences had little effect on the regional distribution of the total o2 deficit and o2 excess in recovery . the o2 deficit could be decreased somewhat by increasing delivery , but the amount of excess o2 used in recovery was unaffected . this suggested that the excess o2 use in recovery was more a function of an energy deficit during hypoxia and not an o2 deficit . 
mechanism of peptidoleukotriene-induced increases in pulmonary transvascular fluid filtration . we examined the effects of leukotrienes c4 ( ltc4 ) and d4 ( ltd4 ) ( 1 microgram ) on the pulmonary vascular filtration coefficient , a measure of vessel wall conductivity to water , and the alterations in pulmonary vascular resistance ( pvr ) in isolated-perfused guinea pig lungs . we also assessed whether ltc4 and ltd4 increased the permeability to albumin in cultured monolayers of pulmonary artery endothelial cells . in ringer-perfused and blood-perfused lungs , ltc4 resulted in increases in pulmonary arterial pressure ( ppa ) and the pulmonary capillary pressure ( pcap ) measured as the equilibration pressure after simultaneous pulmonary arterial and venous occlusions . pulmonary venous resistance ( rv ) increased to a greater extent than arterial resistance ( ra ) in both ringer-perfused and blood-perused lungs challenged with ltc4 . the greater increase in pvr in blood-perfused lungs corresponded with a greater elevation of lung effluent thromboxane b2 ( txb2 ) concentration . the ltc4-stimulated increase in pvr was prevented by pretreatment with meclofenamate ( 10 ( -4 ) m ) . ltd4 also induced rapid increases in ppa and pcap in both ringer-perfused and blood-perfused lungs ; however , ppa decreased before stabilizing at a pressure higher than base line . the increases in rv with ltd4 were greater than ra . the ltd4-stimulated increases in ra and rv also paralleled the elevation in txb2 concentration . as with ltc4 , the increases in ppa , pcap , pvr , and txb2 concentration were greater in blood-perfused than in ringer-perfused lungs . pretreatment with meclofenamate reduced the magnitude of the initial increase in ppa , but did not prevent the response . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
propranolol does not impair exercise oxygen uptake in normal men at high altitude . decreased maximal o2 uptake ( vo2max ) and stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system have been previously shown to occur at high altitude . we hypothesized that tachycardia mediated by beta-adrenergic stimulation acted to defend vo2max at high altitude . propranolol treatment beginning before high-altitude ( 4 , 300 m ) ascent reduced heart rate during maximal and submaximal exercise in six healthy men treated with propranolol ( 80 mg three times daily ) compared with five healthy subjects receiving placebo ( lactose ) . compared with sea-level values , the vo2max fell on day 2 at high altitude , but the magnitude of fall was similar in the placebo and propranolol treatment groups ( 26 + / - 6 vs . 32 + / - 5 % , p = ns ) and vo2max remained similar at high altitude in both groups once treatment was discontinued . during 30 min of submaximal ( 80 % of vo2max ) exercise , propranolol-treated subjects maintained o2 uptake levels that were as large as those in placebo subjects . the maintenance of maximal or submaximal levels of o2 uptake in propranolol-treated subjects at 4 , 300 m could not be attributed to increased minute ventilation , arterial o2 saturation , or hemoglobin concentration . rather , it appeared that propranolol-treated subjects maintained o2 uptake by transporting a greater proportion of the o2 uptake with each heartbeat . thus , contrary to our hypothesis , beta-adrenergic blockade did not impair maximal or submaximal o2 uptake at high altitude due perhaps to compensatory mechanisms acting to maintain stroke volume and cardiac output . 
effect of graded erythrocythemia on cardiovascular and metabolic responses to exercise . the effects of graded induced erythrocythemia on cardiovascular and metabolic responses to intense treadmill running were studied in four highly trained endurance runners . three autologous infusions of 1 unit ( u ) whole blood ( 450 ml / u ) were administered sequentially 2-7 days apart . maximal o2 consumption ( vo2max ) increased from 5.04 l / min at control ( c ) to 5.24 l / min after 2 u ( r2 ) and 5.38 l / min after 3 u ( r3 ) . cardiac output during treadmill running at 91 % control vo2max was 28.2 l / min at c , 29.8 l / min at r2 , and 33.1 l / min at r3 . corresponding heart rates were unchanged , and stroke volume was increased at r3 . peak lactate concentration was reduced , and arterial acid-base status improved at r2 and r3 after standardized bouts of intense exercise . arterial blood pressures and electrocardiograms during exercise were not affected by erythrocythemia . we conclude that the reinfusion of up to 3 u of autologous blood into highly trained endurance runners who have normal hematology does not adversely affect their cardiovascular response to maximal exercise . in addition , the increases in vo2max following reinfusion of 2 u , and again after 3 u , suggest that the aerobic power of the working muscles was not surpassed at these levels of erythrocythemia . 
ph measurement in human skeletal muscle samples : effect of phosphagen hydrolysis . measurements of muscle ph ( phm ) with the homogenate technique are routinely made when extensive phosphagen hydrolysis has occurred . upon exposure of the homogenate to 37 degrees c in the ph meter , phosphocreatine and atp were rapidly degraded to 35 and 60 % of control concentrations after 30 s . attempts at chemically arresting this hydrolysis were unsuccessful . therefore we examined the significance of phosphagen hydrolysis on phm measurement in human biopsies taken at rest and following intense electrical stimulation . to accomplish this , phm was measured at 0 degree c , where extensive hydrolysis did not occur . on the same homogenate , phm was measured at 0 degree c with phosphagens and at 0 and 37 degrees c after phosphagen hydrolysis . the effect of phosphagen hydrolysis on phm at 0 degrees c was used to estimate this effect at 37 degrees c . in resting samples , phosphagen hydrolysis produced a nonsignificant acidification of 0.008 ph units and , in electrically stimulated samples , a nonsignificant alkalinization of 0.033 units . measurements of homogenate pco2 suggested that most of the co2 remained in the sample during phm measurement at 37 degrees c . the present work substantiates the use of the homogenate technique as an accurate and practical method for the estimation of intracellular ph in resting and exercise human muscle samples . 
airflow characteristics in a baboon nasal passage cast . airflow patterns in the nasal passages influence the distribution of air-pollutant-induced lesions in the airway mucosa . little is known about airflow characteristics of the complex nasopharyngeal airway of humans and experimental animals . airflow characteristics in the nasopharyngeal airways of an adult male baboon ( 13.9 kg body wt ) were investigated with thermistor probes and the findings compared with flow visualization , using a cinephotographic technique . a clear , acrylic , hollow cast of a baboon nose was made , and thermistor probes were inserted to record air velocity in the cast lumen using a wind tunnel to propel air through the cast . an identical cast was studied by passing water through the cast , with pulses of dye to reveal flow , and cinephotography was used for determination of flow velocities and flow patterns . flow rates adjusted on the basis of a reynolds conversion showed good correlations between the two methods , whereas cinephotography revealed areas of turbulence and vortex-like flow not detected by thermistor probes . these results suggest that water flow may provide useful information in complex airways where airflow cannot be determined by other methods . 
validity / reliability of sweat analysis by whole-body washdown vs . regional collections . six subjects ( 25.3 + / - 3.3 yr , mean + / - sd ) exercised for 60 min at 42 + / - 4 [ low ( l ) ] , 55 + / - 6 [ moderate ( m ) ] , and 67 + / - 4 % vo2max [ high ( h ) ] in a moderate environment . sweat collected from upper back ( ub ) , lower back ( lb ) , midchest ( mc ) , stomach ( s ) , and thigh ( t ) areas as well as by whole-body washdown ( w ) was analyzed for urea nitrogen ( n ) . with the exception of the l where all regional measures were similar , all sites overestimated w ( several significantly , p less than 0.05 ) . regression analysis estimations of w ( mg / h ) from regional collections were as follows--l : w = 0.727 ( s ) - 1.366 ( ub ) + 1.181 ( t ) + 65.470 + / - 29.5 , r = 0.90 ; m : w = 0.598 ( mc ) - 0.649 ( ub ) + 0.244 ( lb ) + 43.238 + / - 30.4 , r = 0.99 ; h : w = 0.274 ( s ) - 0.560 ( t ) + 0.223 ( mc ) + 131.104 + / - 4.3 , r = 0.99 ; all intensities : w = 0.497 ( mc ) - 0.483 ( t ) + 0.112 ( lb ) + 69.554 + / - 31.5 , r = 0.96 . w recovery of exogenous urea n applied to each subject 's body was 98.3 + / - 2.7 % ( mean + / - se ) . interinvestigator reliability coefficient ( r = 0.511 ) was significant ( p less than 0.01 ) but relatively low and the between investigator urea n recovery ( 93.3 + / - 3.7 vs . 103.2 + / - 3.5 % ) was significantly different ( p less than 0.05 ) . repeated w determinations by the same investigator were not different ( p greater than 0.05 ) , but intrainvestigator reliability coefficients differed widely ( 0.385 vs . 0.820 ) . together , these data indicate that w solute recovery can be high ; however , both inter- and intrainvestigator reliability can vary . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
energy cost minimization in left ventricular ejection : an optimal control model . a new optimization model for explaining the observed left ventricular ejection patterns is presented . in the system model , arterial load is described by a modified windkessel load . the ejection pattern for a given cardiac output with fixed stroke volume and duration of ejection is predicted by minimizing a criterion that describes the total ventricular o2 consumption . the ejection patterns of the model closely resemble the observed ejection patterns . also , the model predictions for changes in the values of the system parameters are qualitatively correct . the results strongly suggest that the control of ejection pattern satisfies the principle of energy cost minimization . 
efficiency of free energy use for muscular work [ letter ] 
osteonecrosis [ editorial ] 
core decompression of the femoral head for osteonecrosis . the results of forty core-decompression procedures that were performed for ischemic necrosis of the femoral head in thirty-one patients over a four-year period were retrospectively reviewed to ascertain the effectiveness of the procedure . the data did not support the published rates of success of the procedure for stage-1 and stage-2 lesions . with a mean length of follow-up of eighteen months , 60 per cent of the hips that had a decompression prior to collapse of the femoral head demonstrated progression of the lesion and were judged to be a failure by clinical or radiographic criteria . computerized tomographic scans and magnetic resonance imaging proved to be 100 per cent sensitive for diagnosis in preoperative testing ; isotopic bone-scanning was less sensitive ( 80 per cent ) . functional intraoperative testing by the method of ficat did not provide added sensitivity or specificity to the results of the preoperative bone scan . a postoperative or intraoperative fracture occurred in four hips , for an incidence that exceeded any in previously published reports . we concluded that core decompression should be considered a relatively ineffective procedure with significant morbidity . 
rupture and displacement of the ulnar collateral ligament of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb . preoperative diagnosis . the evaluation and treatment of injuries of the ulnar collateral ligament of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb remain controversial . in a retrospective study that was done to assess our ability to determine whether displacement of the ligament ( a stener lesion ) was present , we reviewed our accumulated experience with patients who had an injury of this ligament who were treated surgically between 1972 and 1984. since our method of evaluation changed in 1977 , we compared the preoperative and operative diagnoses in the twenty patients who were treated surgically from 1972 through 1976 with those in the twenty patients who were so treated from 1977 through 1984. considering all forty patients who were treated operatively , sixteen ( 40 per cent ) had a typical stener lesion , and in two others ( 5 per cent ) the ulnar collateral ligament was rolled up on itself and lying beneath the adductor aponeurosis . from 1972 through 1976 , stability was tested with the metacarpophalangeal joint in complete extension or in varying amounts of flexion . of the twenty thumbs that were evaluated by this technique and were treated surgically , 20 per cent had a stener lesion . from 1977 through 1984 , stability was tested with the joint in full flexion because of the findings in anatomical studies that were completed in 1977 ; the incidence of a stener lesion in the twenty thumbs that were treated by repair or reattachment of the ligament during this time was 70 per cent . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
adolescent idiopathic scoliosis treated by harrington-rod distraction and fusion . one hundred and thirty-three patients who had adolescent idiopathic scoliosis were treated by insertion of a single harrington distraction rod and spinal fusion . postoperative immobilization consisted of six months in a below-the-shoulder cast . the mean preoperative curve was 50 degrees , with a range of 30 to 110 degrees . the mean final curve was 35 degrees , with a range of 19 to 63 degrees . there were no neurological injuries and no deep wound infections . twelve patients required further surgery for complications , all of which were treated successfully . the duration of follow-up ranged from twenty-four to seventy-two months . at final follow-up , all patients had resumed their normal preoperative activities without limitations . 
chronic anterior-compartment syndrome of the leg . results of treatment by fasciotomy . thirty legs in nineteen patients , eleven with bilateral and eight with unilateral chronic anterior-compartment syndrome , were treated by fasciotomy . in addition , five of these patients ( six legs ) had compression of the superficial peroneal nerve : two before and three after fasciotomy . one patient also had lateral compartment syndrome in one leg . the patients who had compression of the superficial peroneal nerve were relieved by partial fasciectomy and fasciotomy of the lateral compartment . in one of these patients , with bilateral nerve compression , both superficial peroneal nerves were anomalous . the patient who had lateral compartment syndrome was relieved by fasciotomy of this compartment . two patients required a second fasciotomy due to recurrence of the chronic compartment syndrome . at an average length of follow-up of twenty-five months after fasciotomy for anterior compartment syndrome , functional capacity was unlimited or increased in eighteen patients ( twenty-eight legs ) and was unchanged in one patient ( two legs ) who had had compression of the superficial peroneal nerve . the intramuscular pressures in the anterior compartment were normal at rest as well as during and after exercise eight months after the original fasciotomy in twenty-eight legs and eight months after the second fasciotomy in two legs . 
compartment syndrome in open tibial fractures . a retrospective review of the cases of 180 patients who had 198 acute open fractures of the tibial shaft and were admitted to a multiple-trauma referral center over a three-year period revealed an incidence of accompanying compartment syndrome of 9.1 per cent ( eighteen fractures in sixteen patients ) . each of the eighteen compartment syndromes was documented by measurements of intracompartmental pressure that were obtained by the saline-injection technique , and all were treated by four-compartment fasciotomy . the incidence of compartment syndrome was found to be directly proportional to the degree of injury to soft tissue and bone ; this complication occurred most often in association with a comminuted , grade-iii open injury to a pedestrian . the physician must maintain a high index of suspicion to detect a compartment syndrome in the patient who has multiple trauma , as its clinical signs and symptoms may be masked by a closed injury of the head or the need for ventilatory support or prolonged anesthesia for other surgical procedures . 
neurapraxia of the cervical spinal cord with transient quadriplegia . the purpose of this study was to define as a distinct clinical entity the syndrome of neurapraxia of the cervical spinal cord with transient quadriplegia . the sensory changes include burning pain , numbness , tingling , and loss of sensation , while the motor changes range from weakness to complete paralysis . the episodes are transient and complete recovery usually occurs in ten to fifteen minutes , although in some patients gradual resolution occurs over a period of thirty-six to forty-eight hours . except for burning paresthesia , pain in the neck is not present at the time of injury and there is complete return of motor function and full , pain-free motion of the cervical spine . in our series , routine roentgenograms of the cervical spine were negative for fractures or dislocations in all patients . however , the roentgenographic findings did include developmental spinal stenosis in seventeen patients , congenital fusion in five patients , cervical instability in four patients , and intervertebral disc disease in six patients . spinal stenosis was determined by two different roentgenographic methods . the first was the standard method , and the second was a ratio method devised by us . both measurements were made at the level of the third through the sixth vertebral body on a routine lateral roentgenogram of the cervical spine that was available for twenty-four of the thirty-two patients and for a control group of forty-nine male subjects of similar age who did not have any neurological complaints . using the ratio method , a measurement of less than 0.80 indicated significant spinal stenosis in the group of twenty-four patients for whom roentgenograms were available , as compared with a ratio of approximately 1.00 or more in the control group . there was statistically significant spinal stenosis ( p less than 0.0001 ) in all of the patients as compared with the control subjects by both methods of determining spinal stenosis . a survey of 503 schools participating in national collegiate athletic association ( ncaa ) football in the 1984 season found that 1.3 per 10 , 000 athletes had a history that was suggestive of neurapraxia of the cervical spinal cord . the phenomenon of neurapraxia of the cervical spinal cord occurs in individuals with developmental stenosis of the cervical spine , congenital fusion , cervical instability , or protrusion of an intervertebral disc in association with a decrease in the anteroposterior diameter of the spinal canal . we postulate that in athletes with diminution of the anteroposterior diameter of the spinal canal the spinal cord can , on forced hyperextension or hyperflexion , be compressed , causing transitory motor and sensory manifestations . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) 
congenital cervical stenosis presenting as transient quadriplegia in athletes . report of two cases . the cases of two patients in whom complete but transient quadriplegia developed after an injury that was incurred while playing football are presented . both patients were found to have a congenitally narrow cervical vertebral canal . critical stenosis resulting in the transient quadriplegia occurred after a presumed injury to a cervical disc . in our opinion , a myelogram should be made for patients with a history of transient quadriplegia , numbness , or a burning sensation down the back or the lower extremities , even if other radiographic studies are interpreted as negative . patients who have stenosis of the cervical spine should be advised to discontinue participation in contact sports . 
skeletal suspension in the management of severe burns in children . a sixteen-year experience . from 1966 to 1983 , skeletal suspension was used at the shriners burns institute , galveston , texas , for the treatment of 626 burned pediatric patients who had 1128 affected extremities . skeletal suspension was used for 863 acutely burned extremities ( 76.5 per cent ) to facilitate skin-grafting and in 265 extremities ( 23.5 per cent ) for functional positioning in the surgical correction of burn-acquired deformities . in a retrospective examination of these patients , there were fifty complications ( 4.4 per cent ) related to the skeletal suspension , of which forty-five ( 4.0 per cent ) were infections . all infections resolved with removal of the pins or the administration of antibiotics , or both . with this established low rate of complications , skeletal suspension continues to be a useful adjunct in the care of the severely burned pediatric patient . 
osteomyelitis in gaucher disease . a relatively common complication of gaucher disease , the so-called crisis , frequently is difficult to differentiate from acute osteomyelitis . we reviewed the cases of forty-nine patients with gaucher disease who were treated at the massachusetts general hospital and found that eleven patients had required admission to the hospital for an acute symptom complex that represented either a crisis or an infection . five of the patients proved to have acute hematogenous osteomyelitis . the delayed diagnosis of the infection in three of the patients with osteomyelitis led to an unsatisfactory outcome . 
the contributions of dietary protein and mineral to the healing of experimental fractures . a biomechanical study . we examined the contributions of dietary protein and mineral to fracture-healing by assessing the mechanical properties of fracture callus in rats that were fed a diet that was deficient in or enriched by these nutrients . in order to isolate the effects of diet on fracture-healing , we developed a method for producing a standard closed femoral fracture with minimum-soft-tissue injury . three groups of animals were studied . group i was a control group , in which the rats did not undergo an operation . the rats in group ii underwent intramedullary pinning of the right femur , but no fracture was created . the rats in group iii underwent pinning identical to that used for group ii , after which a closed , transverse femoral fracture was produced . immediately after surgery , the animals in each group were subdivided into five diet-treatment subgroups . subgroup a received a regular diet ; subgroup b received a protein-free diet ; and subgroup c received a mineral-free diet that was lacking in calcium , phosphorus , and vitamin d . subgroup d received a protein-supplemented diet that was composed of three times the calculated requirement of protein , and subgroup e received a mineral-supplemented diet that was composed of three times the calculated requirements of calcium and phosphorus as well as a therapeutic dose of vitamin d , equivalent to that used in the treatment of osteomalacia . at the end of five weeks , the animals were killed and the right femur of each one was subjected to torsion-testing to failure . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
a comparative study of porous coatings in a weight-bearing total hip-arthroplasty model . the purposes of this study were to compare ingrowth of bone into three types of porous coating and to determine the effect of the type of porous coating and the degree of coverage of the stem on the remodeling of bone on the femoral side in cementless hip arthroplasty . a left total hip arthroplasty was performed in forty dogs . thirty of the dogs had a titanium-alloy femoral prosthesis that had had one of three types of commercially pure titanium porous material applied along the length of the anterior and posterior surfaces of the stem : ten with sintered fiber-metal , ten with sintered beads , and ten with plasma flame-spray coating . the remaining ten dogs had a femoral component that was circumferentially coated with commercially pure titanium that was plasma flame-sprayed along the length of the stem . in each group , five animals were killed at one month and five were killed at six months . ingrowth of bone into all three types of porous coating was observed , indicating secure fixation of all components . by six months , there was more ingrowth of bone and new medullary bone adjacent to the proximal and distal aspects of the stems compared with the middle level of the stems in all groups . no significant difference in ingrowth of bone was observed in the beaded surface ( 25.2 per cent ) and the fiber-metal surface ( 16.6 per cent ) at one month , but at six months there was significantly less ingrowth into the beaded surface ( 23.3 per cent ) than into the fiber-metal surface ( 37.3 per cent ) . in all groups , a proximal-to-distal gradient of loss of cortical bone was observed by six months . the group of dogs that had the stem with the circumferential coating experienced more severe loss of bone than did the three groups that had a stem with a partial coating . the magnitude of loss of bone was dependent on the extent rather than the type of porous coating . 
the three-part fracture of the proximal part of the humerus . operative treatment . a retrospective review of the cases of fifteen patients with a three-part fracture of the proximal part of the humerus is presented . fourteen of the fractures were treated with tension-band wiring and one , with an ao buttress plate . the patients were evaluated for pain , range of motion , strength , and function of the involved shoulder and the radiographic result at an average of fifty-four months after the injury . at follow-up , the shoulders had an average of 126 degrees of active elevation , 29 degrees of active external rotation , 81 degrees of active abduction , and internal rotation to the second lumbar vertebra . the only early complication was failure of fixation in the patient who had been treated with a buttress plate . in two patients , radiographic evidence of avascular necrosis of the humeral head later developed , and one of them required revision to a hemiarthroplasty . in conclusion , we recommend operative treatment for the healthy , active individual who has a three-part fracture of the proximal part of the humerus . we found that the best results with these difficult fractures are obtained using tension-band wiring . 
survivorship analysis of total hip replacements . results in a series of active patients who were less than fifty-five years old . between 1971 and 1980 , the senior one of us ( c.s.r. ) performed 101 primary total hip replacements in eighty-five consecutive patients who were less than fifty-five years old . all of the patients had degenerative joint disease . survivorship analysis was used to calculate a predicted cumulative rate of success for this series of total hip replacements over ten years of follow-up . this method of analysis of the data was chosen because it provides a prediction of the expected durability of a total hip arthroplasty in any individual patient . the need for revision because of loosening or infection or else radiographic evidence of migration of a component was the criterion for failure . two revisions were performed for aseptic loosening of the acetabular component . one infection necessitated revision , and radiographic evidence of loss of fixation was seen in one additional acetabular component and one femoral stem . life-table calculations predicted that the survivorship of all of the total hip replacements in this series would be 87.6 per cent at ten years of follow-up . based on the results of the application of this method of analysis to the current series , we concluded that a primary cemented total hip replacement , when performed for coxarthrosis , can be expected to function durably in an active middle-aged patient . 
urinary retention in men after total hip arthroplasty . a prospective study of sixty-four men was conducted before they underwent a total hip arthroplasty to try to identify the factors that are predictive of postoperative urinary retention . although neither the urological history nor the physical examination provided information that was helpful in accurately identifying the patients who were at risk , those whose peak urinary flow rate was less than seventeen milliliters per second did have a statistically significant likelihood of the development of urinary retention . a system of management that we hope will reduce the incidence of this complication is proposed . 
acute compartment syndrome in the thigh complicating fracture of the femur . a report of three cases . 
compartment syndrome as a complication of repair of a hernia of the tibialis anterior . a case report . 
acute compartment syndrome caused by a malfunctioning pneumatic-compression boot . a case report . 
compartment syndrome masked by epidural anesthesia for postoperative pain . report of a case . 
acute compartment syndrome of the forearm in association with fracture of the distal end of the radius . report of two cases . 
fracture of the pedicle of the fourth lumbar vertebra associated with contralateral spondylolysis . report of a case . 
conventional versus resurfacing total hip arthroplasty . a long-term prospective study of concomitant bilateral implantation of prostheses [ letter ] 
giant-cell tumor of bone [ letter ] 
prophylaxis of venous thromboembolic disease following hip and knee surgery [ letter ] 
the randomized clinical trial in orthopaedics : obligation or option ? [ letter ] 
arthritis presumably caused by chlamydia in reiter syndrome . case report with electron microscopic studies [ letter ] 
early diagnosis of atlanto-axial rotatory fixation . atlanto-axial rotatory fixation is one of a spectrum of rotatory abnormalities of the atlanto-axial joint . rotatory fixation without anterior displacement of the atlas ( type i ) has been reported in only a few cases in which there has been a prolonged interval between injury and diagnosis . the majority of these cases eventually required cervical fusion for persistent deformity or instability . two cases are presented in which this diagnosis was made early with the aid of rotated odontoid radiographs , tomography and computerised axial tomography . treatment by a short period of halter traction achieved reduction and early return of function . the authors conclude that early recognition and treatment of this rare condition may prevent the subsequent deformity and instability for which cervical fusion has been required . 
hangman 's fracture in an infant . a case is reported of fracture of the pedicles of the axis vertebra in an infant . non-operative management in a minerva cast resulted in union and full recovery without complications . 
sciatica caused by perifibrosis of the sciatic nerve . 
arthroscopic partial meniscectomy in patients aged over 50. 
a reappraisal of acute traumatic central cord syndrome . a review of 77 patients with traumatic central cord syndrome revealed that atypical variations are more common than the existing literature suggests and that these may be seen in a wide variety of acute injuries to the cervical spine . in general the outcome is good ; a favourable prognosis on admission is suggested by good hand function , hyperpathia , lhermitte 's sign and normal perianal sensation . the study has highlighted the value of regular muscle charting and has cast doubt on previous neuroanatomical assumptions about the syndrome . 
vibratory response in idiopathic scoliosis . recent clinical studies have suggested that a neurological lesion may be a cause of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis and animal experiments have implicated the posterior column pathway . we have tried to determine if differences in neurological response could be detected and measured clinically , and have compared the threshold of detection of vibratory sensation in 20 girls with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis with that in 20 clinically normal age-matched controls . a highly significant reduction of the threshold of detection of vibration was seen in the scoliotic group compared to the controls ( p less than 0.001 ) . curve magnitude did not correlate with this threshold for either the upper ( r = 0.172 ) or lower extremity ( r = 0.126 ) . significant asymmetry between right- and left-sided thresholds to vibration was demonstrated in the scoliotic group . our study supports the concept that an aberration in the function of the posterior column pathway of the cord may be of primary importance in the aetiology of idiopathic scoliosis . a clinically practical test to measure this function is presented . 
the changes in the intervertebral disc after chemonucleolysis demonstrated by magnetic resonance imaging . magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) of the spine produces images which reflect the chemical composition of the intervertebral disc . we have conducted a prospective study of the serial changes in the mri appearance of the intervertebral disc after chemonucleolysis with the enzyme chymopapain . fourteen patients were studied after single-level chemonucleolysis and the results compared with a control group of 17 discs in six patients who had diagnostic discography without enzyme insertion . a consistent pattern of gradual loss of signal from the nucleus pulposus culminating in complete loss of nuclear signal was seen in all cases after chemonucleolysis . chymopapain therefore produced mri changes analogous with premature gross disc degeneration . the rate at which this occurred varied ; complete loss of signal took at least six weeks . transitory minor end-plate changes were present in five patients , probably representing a mild chemical discitis . no similar changes were seen in the discography group . 
observations on the growth of the adolescent spine . we have measured the increase in height and width of the vertebral bodies and expressed them as percentages of the total growth in children aged 10 to 17 years . the first group , 10 boys and 10 girls , each had a single thoracic adolescent idiopathic scoliosis while the second group , 10 girls , each had a single lumbar adolescent idiopathic scoliosis . no significant differences were found between the growth increments and spinal dimensions of the vertebral bodies involved in the scoliotic curve and those vertebrae outside the curve in the same patient . the vertebrae were more slender in girls than in boys . 
the role of computerised tomography in intervertebral disc prolapse . computerised tomography of the lumbar spine was performed on 22 patients with clinical evidence of prolapse of an intervertebral disc and normal or equivocal radiculograms . of 11 patients with positive scans who had an operation the presence of pathology was confirmed in 10. although ct scanning is always helpful in diagnosing disc disorders , where facilities are scarce ( as in great britain ) it is best employed in patients with negative or non-contributory radiculography . 
computerised axial tomography in traction injuries of the brachial plexus . severe traction injuries may damage the brachial plexus at any level from the spinal cord to the axillary outlet . investigation aims to determine the level of the injury for each of the nerves , trunks or cords , with particular reference to obtaining firm evidence of any intradural ( pre-ganglionic ) damage . we report the results of computerised axial tomography of the cervical spine in comparison with conventional myelography and with surgical exploration of the plexus . ct scanning with contrast enhancement greatly improves diagnostic accuracy , particularly at c5 and c6 root levels . 
reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament by allogeneic tendon graft . an operation for chronic ligamentous insufficiency . we describe the use of allogeneic human tendon as an intra-articular replacement for the anterior cruciate ligament . depending on the type and degree of functional instability we recommend the addition , in some cases , of supplementary extra-articular procedures . we have reviewed 31 patients at least two years after operation and have found that 30 of them had been able to return to full sporting activities . the indications for operation and the techniques are discussed and the use of allogeneic tendon is recommended . 
isolated avulsion of the tibial attachment of the posterior cruciate ligament in childhood . 
angulation of the radius in children 's fractures . a study of 79 children with malunion of forearm fractures is presented . age at the time of injury , the site of the fracture and the degree and direction of angulation at union were correlated with loss of forearm rotation at review 3.5 to 6 years later . some guidelines are proposed for the acceptability of angular deformity at union , importance being placed on the avoidance of radial deviation of the radius , and the maintenance of the interosseous gap between the shafts of the radius and ulna . 
supracondylar fractures of the humerus . assessment of cubitus varus by the baumann angle . a simple method of radiological assessment has been used to measure the angle between the long axis of the humeral shaft and the growth plate of the capitellum ( the baumann angle ) . in the normal arm a significant relationship was found between the baumann angle and the carrying angle . the baumann angle was also measured after reduction of supracondylar fractures of the humerus and was found to correlate well with the final carrying angle measured at follow-up . there was no significant difference between the baumann angle after reduction and that measured at follow-up ; and it is suggested that this angle after reduction can be reliably used to predict accurately the final carrying angle . 
acute carpal tunnel syndrome . complications of delayed decompression . five patients suffered injuries around the wrist complicated by acute tunnel syndrome . pain associated with median nerve paraesthesia or hypo-aesthesia are indications for urgent treatment ; in four patients where operation was delayed , the outcome was poor . 
biomechanical aspects of femoral fractures in automobile accidents . a medical and engineering study was made of 1074 car accidents involving 2520 vehicle occupants . the injuries they sustained were correlated with details of the crash and with contact points inside the cars . where possible the forces which were generated in the crash were estimated and related to the injuries . in all , 39 car occupants suffered femoral shaft fracture , with an incidence of 1.7 % and 0.8 % for front and rear seat occupants respectively . of these , 31 had associated injuries to other regions of the body ; these were the cause of 13 of the 14 deaths in this group . associated injuries were more severe in car occupants who were not wearing seat belts but the incidence of femoral fracture was not significantly different . the mean velocity change ( delta-v ) causing femoral fracture was 26 mph ( 42 km / h ) and there was a higher incidence of femoral shaft fracture when delta-v was over 30 mph . estimates of forces needed to cause fracture were higher than those found in cadaver studies . the time to union of femoral fractures did not correlate with the severity of the crash but was longer ( mean 19 weeks ) than the average for other femoral fractures . 
hemitransplantation of the tendo calcaneus in children with spinal neurological disorders . in paralytic lesions in which the triceps surae is the only active muscle in the leg , elongation or division of the tendo calcaneus alone may not be enough to prevent recurrence of equinus deformity . in 10 patients ( 13 limbs ) with this pattern of muscle activity , equinus deformity was treated by hemitransplantation of the tendo calcaneus . at follow-up , which was beyond the end of growth in seven limbs , there was no recurrence of deformity in nine . in three of the four failures , a technical fault may have caused loss of activity in the transplanted part of the tendon . the two-stage operation described is recommended in the management of this pattern of paralytic deformity . 
mechanical loosening of total hip prostheses . a radiographic and roentgen stereophotogrammetric study . twenty patients were examined by standard radiography and roentgen stereophotogrammetric analysis ( rsa ) during a two-year period after total hip arthroplasty . eleven of the acetabular components migrated cranially and three femoral components migrated distally . this migration was most rapid during the first four months after operation . our findings support the possibility that mechanical loosening is initiated by thermal injury during polymerisation of the cement ; the less frequent migration of the metallic femoral component compared with the polyethylene acetabular component may be because the metal acts as a heat sink . standard radiographs were inadequate for assessment of early mechanical loosening , whereas rsa could reveal migration within four months of the arthroplasty . 
a simple technique for arthrodesis of the first metatarsophalangeal joint . 
the robert jones bandage . a bulky compression dressing ( the robert jones bandage ) is often used by orthopaedic surgeons . we have reviewed its history and monitored intramuscular compartment pressure under it after total knee replacement . we found that it increased compartment pressure and helped to reduce bleeding , tissue oedema and the size of effusions and haemarthroses . 
spontaneous regression of a desmoid tumour . a 15-year-old girl presented with a very large desmoid tumour in her buttock ; it extended into the pelvis and thigh and would have required hindquarter amputation for its removal . this was not performed and the tumour underwent spontaneous regression . fourteen years later the patient is alive and well . the suggestion is made that in some cases a more expectant approach to treatment might be justified for what is essentially a non-malignant condition . 
dome osteotomy of the tibia for osteoarthritis of the knee . proximal tibial osteotomy is commonly performed for osteoarthritis of the knee with deformity . the results of 105 dome osteotomies have been reviewed at a minimum follow-up of one year and an average of 4.8 years . before operation all the knees were painful , 50.5 % severely ; a further 45.7 % disturbed sleep at night . at review 15.2 % of knees were free of pain and 60 % had only slight pain which did not restrict activity . the preoperative range of movement was maintained and there was only a slight tendency for radiological changes to progress , with actual improvement in some cases . no correlation was found between the correction of deformity to physiological valgus and the result . we cannot explain why tibial osteotomy produces such useful and sustained pain relief . 
st georg modular knee prosthesis . a two-and-a-half to six-year follow-up . the st georg modular knee replacement has been studied in 59 cases with an observation period ranging from 28 to 73 months . in 47 % of the knees both compartments were replaced ; five of the six poor results were in this group . these were revised to a hinge arthroplasty or , in one case , to an arthrodesis . other complications were few and insignificant . there were no infections . we concluded that unicompartmental knee arthroplasty can be recommended when joint involvement is localised to one compartment only . with more generalised joint disease we prefer a semiconstrained total condylar prosthesis . 
management of rachitic deformities in children with chronic renal failure . five children with chronic renal failure and severe rachitic deformities of the lower limbs were treated with 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin d ( 1 alpha-ohd3 ) for 16 to 53 months . there was symptomatic , biochemical and radiological improvement in all five children and operative correction of their deformities was not needed . we recommend a trial of treatment with 1 alpha-ohd3 for this condition before surgical procedures . 
survival of knee arthroplasties . a nation-wide multicentre investigation of 8000 cases . a prospective nation-wide study of knee arthroplasty has been under way in sweden since october 1975. by the end of 1983 , 4505 arthroplasties for osteoarthritis and 3495 for rheumatoid arthritis had been recorded and reviewed one , three and six years after the operation . using actuarial methods , the probability of the prosthesis remaining in situ after six years was calculated . in osteoarthritis this probability ranged from 65 % for hinged prostheses to 90 % for medial compartment prostheses . two-and three-compartment prostheses produced intermediate results with 87 % survival . in rheumatoid arthritis the probability varied from 72 % for medial compartment prostheses to 90 % for two- and three-compartment prostheses . the main reason for failure was loosening of the components , the second most common was infection . the probability of revision for infection by six years was 2 % in osteoarthritis and 3 % in rheumatoid arthritis . most revisions were to a three-compartment prosthesis . knee fusion at primary revision was required in 2 % of the cases at six years . 
the osteocutaneous free fibular graft . free osteocutaneous fibular grafts , revascularised by microvascular anastomoses , have been used for one-stage reconstruction of extensive bone and skin loss in the lower leg in seven patients . the addition of an integral skin flap to a vascularised fibular graft makes reconstruction of bone defects with significant skin loss possible , and the technique for designing and raising such a flap is presented . the advantages of this transfer over other microvascular osteocutaneous flaps are the available length of straight cortical bone , the large thin skin flap , the good diameter of the vascular pedicle and the fact that dissection is carried out under a tourniquet . 
transient synovitis and perthes ' disease . is there an aetiological connection ? a prospective study was made of 119 children with transient synovitis or any other cause for synovial effusion and elevated intra-articular pressure . during a follow-up of one year not one case of perthes ' disease was diagnosed and the late clinical and radiographic changes were minimal with moderate overgrowth of the femoral head in 33 % and widening of the joint space in 14.2 % . our results do not support the widely accepted concept that perthes ' disease develops as a result of the period of elevated intra-articular pressure found in transient synovitis . further research into this and perthes ' disease should follow the premise that they are two different diseases without any aetiological connection . 
anterior midline or medial parapatellar incision for arthroplasty of the knee . a comparative study . early mobilisation after arthroplasty of the knee sometimes results in wound breakdown . the two commonly used incisions , the anterior midline and the medial parapatellar incisions , were compared in order to determine which had the best potential for wound healing . study of the cleavage lines around the knee demonstrated that the medial parapatellar incision lies parallel to the lines , whilst the anterior midline incision lies perpendicular to them . in addition , the medial parapatellar wound was found to be subjected to significantly less tension during flexion ; after arthroplasty it can be expected to heal faster and to be less liable to disruption during early mobilisation . 
repeat compartment decompression with partial fasciectomy . after having had a standard decompression for anterior compartment syndrome , five patients presented with persistent symptoms and pressure values above normal . a repeat procedure combined with fasciectomy relieved their pain ; postoperative pressure values were normal . 
exercise pain in the lower leg . chronic compartment syndrome and medial tibial syndrome . the aetiology of pain in the lower leg during exercise has been studied in 110 athletes by monitoring intracompartmental pressure during exercise and by technetium bone scans . patients were assigned to three diagnostic groups : chronic compartment syndrome , medial tibial syndrome and those with non-specific findings . our results indicate that subcutaneous fasciotomy of the affected compartment ( s ) is the treatment of choice for chronic compartment syndrome . the treatment of patients with medial tibial syndrome , either by operation or conservatively , has been unsuccessful ; non-specific symptoms have been treated conservatively with success . 
epithelioid sarcoma in association with total knee replacement . a case report . a case is reported in which an epithelioid sarcoma developed in an apparently benign enchondroma or bone infarct at the site of a chrome-cobalt total knee replacement . 
congenital aplasia of the cruciate ligaments . a report of six cases . instability of the knee is frequently found in association with congenital leg-length discrepancy . we have studied six such patients clinically , radiologically and arthroscopically . clinical signs of knee instability and significant radiological changes were present in all , and at arthroscopy the anterior cruciate ligament was completely absent in four patients and functionless in the other two . this deficiency appears to be a congenital condition which may predispose to meniscus injury or retropatellar pain ; it may also lead to subluxation or dislocation of the knee during leg-lengthening procedures . 
regeneration of the sciatic nerve in rats . the effect of muscle basement membrane . an orientated substratum has been implicated in the development and regeneration of axons and synapses . we prepared a basement membrane matrix from autogenous striated muscle , used it to repair the sciatic nerve in rats , then investigated the results by histology and electrophysiology . when treated grafts were coaxially aligned with the nerve fascicles functional recovery appeared within 30 days , with good growth of axons into the distal nerve . grafts with myotubes at right angles to the nerve fascicles supported nerve regeneration but at a slower rate . grafts of coaxially aligned but untreated muscle allowed axon penetration only through naturally degenerated muscle fibres , with minimal axon penetration of the distal nerve . it is concluded that in the rat a treated graft with correctly orientated empty myotubes can facilitate and guide the regeneration of peripheral nerve after injury and so lead to recolonisation of the distal stump with functional recovery . 
genesis of the ball-and-socket ankle . ball-and-socket ankle is a rare deformity associated with such pre-existing conditions as congenital shortening of the lower limb , coalition of tarsal bones , absent digital rays and aplasia or hypoplasia of the fibula . we have observed seven patients with this deformity for an average of six years from initial examination at 20 days to 3.5 years . arthrography showed that the configuration of the ankle was apparently normal in patients under 10 months of age and that a ball-and-socket joint develops by four to five years of age , possibly in compensation for the loss of inversion and eversion caused by tarsal coalition . ball-and-socket joint is therefore probably not congenital , but is an acquired deformity secondary to various pre-existing congenital conditions . 
proceedings and reports of universities , colleges , councils , associations and societies . abstracts . 
surgical management of intracavitary cardiac tumors . a review of fifteen patients and current status in japan . fifteen patients with intracavitary cardiac tumors were operated on at the kobe university hospital between september 1977 and january 1984. three of the patients were men and twelve were women . they ranged in age from 9 to 75 years . their symptoms were chest pain , dyspnea , cough , palpitation and syncope . definite diagnosis was confirmed by echo- and cineangiocardiography . there were 14 benign tumors consisting of 13 myxomas , one leiomyoma and one malignant myxosarcoma . the left atrium was the most common chamber involved ( 12 instances ) , followed by the right atrium ( 3 ) . surgery was performed in all cases under cardiopulmonary bypass with moderate hypothermia and cold crystalloid cardioplegia . tumors were removed en bloc at the base with their attachment to the atrial septum or free wall in all cases . three patients underwent concomitant mitral annuloplasty or mitral commissurotomy . two cases with left atrial myxoma died postoperatively : one case associated with mitral annuloplasty died of congestive heart failure due to newly developed chordal rupture two months after surgery , and the other died of congestive heart failure 13 months after the first operation . re-excision for recurrence of the myxosarcoma in the left atrium was performed in the latter case as a second surgical procedure . the remaining 13 cases with benign tumors are doing well and are without recurrence . from these favorable results , surgical intervention should be recommended prior to the occurrence of heart failure and severe complications such as coronary or peripheral embolism whenever cardiac tumors are detected by non-invasive echocardiography and cineangiocardiography . 
reduction of blood use in surgery for coronary artery disease . ninety consecutive patients underwent surgery for coronary artery disease . eighty-one ( 90 % ) did not require blood transfusion in the immediate postoperative period ; nine patients received 16 units of blood , 6 of whom bled excessively ; 2 were re-explored . twelve had post-operative haemoglobins below 8.5 g / dl during their stay . they were transfused a total of 28 units of blood before discharge . post-operative blood loss in the 9 transfused early averaged 894 + / - 176 ml ( sem ) . loss from the not transfused patients averaged 481 + / - 18 ml ( p less than 0.001 ) . patients transfused later had a mean loss of 510 + / - 36 ml ( p ns ) . sixty-nine patients were not transfused . haemoglobin on the first post-operative day was 11.3 + / - 1.3 g / dl ( sd ) . this declined to 10.2 + / - 1.2 g / dl on the fifth day . discharge haemoglobin was 10.5 + / - 1.2 g / dl . two patients died , one of myocardial infarction on the third day and the other of pancreatitis on the fourth . both had had early blood transfusion . haemoglobins were above 10 g / dl . of the 69 untransfused patients 17 % had supraventricular arrhythmias . ten percent had serous wound discharges ; 3 were infected . there were no sternal dehiscences . it is concluded that bank blood transfusion with its attendant hazards and expense is easily avoidable in most patients . this saving of resources will increase the availability of blood and rare groups for surgery . 
pulmonary embolism from a parasitic cardiac clot secondary to hepatic alveolar echinococcosis . an exceptional form of hepatic alveolar echinococcosis with metastasis of the right atrium is reported . this cardiac location of the parasitosis was revealed by attacks of pulmonary embolism which produced secondary pulmonary lesions . this case suggests that pulmonary metastases of alveolar echinococcosis of the liver might be due to the migration of parasitic clots from the hepatic veins . 
myxoma of the aortic valve in a child . myxomas are predominantly located in the right on left atrium . we report an unusual case of a myxoma adherent to the aortic valve . the child presented with symptoms of subaortic stenosis . by invasive methods a tumor was diagnosed located at the aortic valve . after surgical removal the child recovered soon and is doing well . according to our knowledge this is the first report of a myxoma of the aortic valve . 
bjork-shiley valve malfunction by prolapsed sutures . severe aortic regurgitation developed in three patients after aortic valve replacement within six months due to long sutures prolapsing across the " annulus " of bjork-shiley prosthesis . at reoperation the offending sutures were trimmed or tucked back to the aortic wall to eliminate aortic regurgitation . prolapse of unravelled knots may be the likely cause . everting the sewing skirt during the first replacement may prevent this complication . 
traumatic vascular lesions associated with fractures and dislocations . from may 1977 to january 1983 , 270 patients with traumatic vascular lesions were treated in our service . among these , 27 presented associated fractures and / or dislocations . a high index of suspicion , the early recognition of the presence of vascular injury by thorough clinical evaluation , routine use of the doppler flowmeter and broad indication of preoperative angiography resulted in prompt repair of these lesions in the majority of cases . early exploration , wide fasciotomies , use of temporary intraluminal shunts during the bone fixation procedures ( usually by internal plates ) , definitive venous and arterial repair after limb stabilization was achieved and frequent use of intraoperative angiography were the predominant factors in the treatment and outcome in these complex injuries . all eight limbs with closed fractures and / or dislocations were preserved , as well as 17 of 19 ( 89 % ) of the limbs with open or exposed skeletal injuries , resulting in a limb salvage rate of 92.6 % . 
reconstruction with insertion of expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( eptfe ) for iliac venous obstruction . surgical therapy for dvt in the legs , including reconstruction of the blood circulation system and thrombectomy with a fogarty catheter , is not always satisfactory , as indicated by the variety of opinions both for and against them . however , it is also a fact that postphlebitic syndrome can result from incomplete treatment . therefore , surgical approaches should by given priority in the acute stage of the disease . in 5 patients who showed either complete obstruction or insufficient removal of thrombi from the proximal region in leg dvt , we performed crossover femoro-femoral bypass using eptfe ( including two wire reinforced grafts ) and were able to obtain good long-term patency over periods of 8-18 months . 
the significance of tibial artery disease in the management of popliteal aneurysms . the clinical , radiographic and histologic features of sixty-one popliteal aneurysms in 36 patients are reviewed . twenty-seven aneurysms were thrombosed and presented with an acutely ischaemic limb or the sudden onset of severe claudication . thirty-four patent aneurysms presented with either ischaemic ulceration or claudication due to tibial artery disease or were asymptomatic with normal distal pulses . thrombosis made reconstruction difficult and at times required a femoro-tibial graft . in others reconstruction was not possible leading to amputation either as primary treatment or following failed revascularization . in patent aneurysms one or more tibial arteries were frequently occluded . it is postulated that obliterative atheromatous disease of the tibial vessels and the slow flow through the aneurysmal vessels is responsible for the high incidence of thrombosis , poor graft patency and a high amputation rate . 
our eight-year experience with human umbilical vein grafts . from 1977 through 1984 , 58 arterial reconstructions using glutaraldehyde-tanned human umbilical vein ( h.u.v. ) grafts were carried out : 41 femoropopliteal , 4 composite aortopopliteal ( a dacron graft was inserted proximally ) , 5 femorotibial , 6 axillofemoral , 1 femorofemoral , and 1 iliofemoral bypass . autogenous saphenous vein was absent or inadequate in all patients . limb salvage was the primary indication for surgery ( 89.7 % ) . five and 8 years cumulative patency rates were 42.8 % and 35.1 % respectively for all h.u.v. by-passes and 52.4 % and 41.9 % respectively for femoropopliteal by-passes . four out of the 5 femorotibial by-passes failed during the first month following surgery . two of the 6 axillofemoral and 3 of the 4 composite aortopopliteal by-passes thrombosed within 1 and 3 years after surgery , respectively . perioperative mortality was 5.1 % , while overall mortality was 17.2 % . the following conclusions can be drawn from these results : h.u.v. grafts did not achieve cumulative patency rates superior to those reported with autogenous saphenous vein , in limb salvage situations , when the saphenous vein is not available , the h.u.v. graft offers acceptable salvage rates , results from the 8-year follow-up period demonstrate the durability and long-term patency of h.u.v. grafts . 
renal function following aneurysmectomy of the abdominal aorta . postoperative renal function was evaluated in 90 patients operated on for abdominal aortic aneurysms . forty-four patients were operated on acutely because of impending or actual rupture of the aneurysm . forty-six patients were operated on electively . the overall mortality rate was 23.7 % with a post-operative mortality of 7.8 % . postoperative renal function was evaluated by measurements of the s-creatinine . impaired renal function was found postoperatively in 45 % of the surviving patients . forty percent of the patients operated on electively had postoperative renal impairment compared with 52 % of the patients operated on acutely . the postoperative mortality rate in patients with impaired renal function was 32.4 % compared with 8.7 % in patients with unchanged renal function . no significant relation between postoperative renal impairment and administration of aminoglycosides , duration of the operation or clamping time of the aorta was found . we found a significant relationship between postoperative renal impairment and episodes of hypotension ( p less than 0.01 ) and the volume of blood transfusions needed ( p less than 0.001 ) . 
differentiation of ruptured aortic aneurysm from acute expansion by computerised tomography . ct scans were obtained in five patients who presented with abdominal pain and were found to have an abdominal aortic aneurysm without evidence of hypovolaemia . a periaortic haematoma and evidence of a rupture was found on scanning in three of the patients and confirmed at immediate operation . a retrospective diagnosis of rapidly expanding ( acute ) aneurysm was made in the other two patients in whom no other pathology was found at early elective operation . ct scanning is useful in differentiating small well-controlled ruptures from rapidly expanding aneurysms . 
" chronic-contained " ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm : is it real ? rupture of an abdominal aortic aneurysm is readily diagnosed when the triad of abdominal or back pain , shock and a pulsatile abdominal mass are present . clinical diagnosis can be difficult , however , when patients present with chronic pain and an aneurysm which is not readily palpable . in these patients with confusing abdominal symptoms , ct scan provides a rapid , noninvasive diagnosis . the acute leaking aaa has been documented , but only rarely . this report identifies two patients who ruptured an aortic aneurysm several " months " prior to operation--a " contained chronic " rupture . 
routine angiography for abdominal aortic aneurysm : the case for informed operative selection . an ongoing prospective protocol of routine abdominal aortic angiography in the evaluation of patients presenting for elective abdominal aortic aneurysmorrhaphy was assessed for its efficacy in directing perioperative management . eighteen per cent of 70 angiograms provided decisive information , and an additional 14 % were potentially helpful in operative management ; we therefore feel that routine angiography is a valuable part of the preoperative workup of patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms . 
external iliac artery occlusion by bicycle handle injury . blunt injury in a youth to the external iliac artery with secondary thrombosis , associated clinically with a seemingly minor blunt injury to the right lower quadrant of the abdomen , is presented . symptoms were delayed , but eventually became dramatic . the methods of diagnosis and evaluation are discussed and the selection of the operative procedure is outlined . the potential of significant vascular injury should be suspected and followed closely in all blunt injuries in the proximity of major vascular conduits . early and aggressive treatment in the young is mandatory to prevent not only the usual complications of limb ischemia , but the discrepant limb lengths seen in the growing youth deprived of normal circulation to an extremity . 
disseminated intravascular coagulopathy associated with thromboexclusion for dissecting aortic aneurysm . disseminated intravascular coagulopathy ( dic ) was demonstrated in a patient who underwent surgical thromboexclusion by blood flow reversal for dissecting aortic aneurysm . large clots in the descending thoracic aorta and extra-anatomic bypass grafting might have been causative factors of the consumption coagulopathy . low-dose heparin together with fresh-frozen plasma was effective ; however , extreme caution should be adopted with such patients to minimize the development of dic , because the factors responsible for the coagulation abnormalities are not removed in patients who undergo the surgical treatment of thromboexclusion . 
internal mammary artery to pulmonary artery fistula . a rare case of arteriovenous fistula between an internal mammary artery and a pulmonary artery is presented . the clinical history of recurrent bronchitis and dyspnoea during exercise , the presence of right parasternal murmur with normal heart size and normal blood gases justified the execution of an arteriovenous thoracic angiography which revealed the presence of a cirsoid aneurysm supplied by the internal and external mammary arteries . diagnostic investigation and surgical indication in patients with the rare fistulous communication between the internal mammary artery and the systemic or pulmonary circulation are analysed . 
the impossible intubation--what next ? a patient is presented in whom endotracheal intubation was impossible secondary to an obstructing substernal goiter and laryngeal spasm . cardiopulmonary bypass was utilized to provide safe induction of anesthesia and intubation so that the substernal goiter could be removed . other alternative methods in anesthetic management are discussed . 
alterations in calcium , vitamin d , and parathyroid hormone physiology in normal men with aging : relationship to the development of senile osteopenia . the effects of aging on calcium and bone metabolism have not been systematically examined in men . to identify age-related alterations in vitamin d and pth physiology and to assess their impact on skeletal health , we studied 62 normal men , aged 30-92 yr . the men were in excellent health , and none had any evidence of metabolic bone disease and / or known risk factors for osteopenia . serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d ( 25ohd ) concentrations declined steadily with advancing age ( r = -0.47 ; p less than 0.001 ) , and there was a corresponding decline in serum 24 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d [ 24 , 25- ( oh ) 2d ] levels ( r = -0.41 ; p less than 0.001 ) . serum 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d concentrations , however , did not vary over this age range ( r = -0.07 ; p = ns ) . plasma pth levels increased with aging ( r = -0.24 ; p less than 0.001 ) , and there was a concomitant increase in urinary camp excretion ( r = 0.38 ; p less than 0.001 ) . renal function ( creatinine clearance ) clearly declined with increasing age ( r = -0.71 ; p less than 0.001 ) . in conjunction with these changes in calcium metabolism , radial and vertebral bone mineral content declined . whereas the fall in radial bone mineral content ( single photon absorptiometry ) at both proximal and distal sites was slight , there was a marked decrease in vertebral bone mineral content , as measured by quantitative computed tomography ( r = -0.72 ; p less than 0.0001 ) . the fall in vertebral bone mineral content correlated well with the declines in serum 25ohd and 24 , 25- ( oh ) 2d concentrations ( r = 0.47 ; p less than 0.001 and r = 0.51 ; p less than 0.001 , respectively ) and with the decline in renal function ( r = 0.46 ; p less than 0.001 ) . multiple regression analysis revealed that the effects of aging on bone mineral content could be accounted for in large part by concomitant changes in mineral metabolism . both the decline in renal function and the fall in serum 24 , 25- ( oh ) 2d levels were closely associated with the fall in bone mineral content . these results indicate that a decline in renal function and alterations in vitamin d metabolism occur with aging in normal men . these changes contribute to , if not cause , the associated decline in skeletal mineral content in aging men . 
serum levels of somatomedins and somatomedin-binding protein in pregnant women with type i or gestational diabetes and their infants . the serum levels of the low mol wt form of somatomedin-binding protein ( smbp ) were 5-fold higher in both diabetic ( n = 44 ) and nondiabetic pregnant women ( n = 14 ) than in nonpregnant women . no difference was found between women with type 1 diabetes and those with gestational diabetes . there was a negative correlation between maternal levels of smbp during the last trimester and the birth weight percentile of the infants ( r = -0.51 ) . there was a 2- to 3-fold elevation of maternal insulin-like growth factor ( igf-i ) levels during pregnancy in both diabetic and nondiabetic women . a positive correlation ( r = 0.49 ) was found between maternal igf-i levels and the birth weight percentiles of their infants . the correlation between the ratio of igf-i to smbp , which may reflect the igf-i available to the placenta , to birth weight percentile was higher ( r = 0.57 ) , and the se of estimate of weight percentile was 23 % . the ratio between igf-i and smbp in cord blood was correlated with birth weight , although cord blood igf-i and smbp values were not . the igf-ii levels in cord serum were 50 % higher in the infants of diabetic than in those of nondiabetic mothers . these findings raise the questions of whether maternal smbp levels influence the amount of igf-i available for the fetal-placental unit and whether igf-ii participates in glucose homeostasis in the fetus . 
the diagnosis of 5 alpha-reductase deficiency in infancy . the diagnosis of 5 alpha-reductase deficiency in infancy is reported for the first time in three male pseudohermaphrodites from the dominican republic . basal plasma testosterone to dihydrotestosterone ratios were significantly elevated in two of the three affected infants , and increased markedly in all three infants after administration of hcg . since urinary etiocholanolone to androsterone ratios could not be determined accurately in this age group , the diagnosis of 5 alpha-reductase deficiency was confirmed by the finding of elevated urinary tetrahydrocortisol ( thf ) to 5 alpha-tetrahydrocortisol ( 5 alpha-thf ) ratios , as determined by gas chromatography / mass spectrometry , in the affected male infants compared to those in age-matched normal infants . the thf / 5 alpha-thf ratios , however , were lower in both the normal children and the affected infants , suggesting increased 5 alpha-reductase activity in infancy . the affected infants had thf / 5 alpha-thf ratios comparable to ratios in adult carrier males and significantly lower than ratios in adult homozygotes . two of the three affected infants are related to the large dominican kindred we studied previously and initially were raised as females but , after parental counseling , were changed to a male sex of rearing . 
sensitive and specific assay for human chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) based on anti-peptide and anti-hcg monoclonal antibodies : construction and clinical implications . we developed a highly sensitive and specific assay for hcg using monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) directed against a 37-amino acid synthetic polypeptide analogous to the carboxyl-terminus ( ctp ) of beta hcg . five antibodies that varied by either their affinity for beta hcg or their specificity for epitopes on ctp were investigated . to measure hormone levels , we used as the radiolabeled indicator an alpha-subunit-reactive mab . the monoclonal-immunoradiometric assay had a lower limit of sensitivity of 0.05 ng / ml . serum levels of hcg or hcg-like material with ctp structure were measured in 229 healthy blood donors ; 1.1 % of healthy men and 4.6 % of nonpregnant women younger than 50 yr had serum values varying between 0.05 and 0.23 ng / ml . moreover , 6 to 7 healthy women older than 50 yr had detectable levels in the 0.05-0.20 ng / ml range . to study the disappearance rates in normal women , we followed serum hcg serum levels of 6 women who had previously received a single im injection of the hormone . these individuals failed to develop a pregnancy after in vitro fertilization ; hcg declined from 0.5 to 0.05 ng / ml within 2 weeks . these results were in contrast to the findings in 12 patients with hcg-producing tumors . in 9 patients without any evidence of recurrent disease , hcg levels became undetectable within 5 months . however , 3 others had levels consistently above 0.05 but below 0.5 ng / ml . in 2 of these three patients , subsequent increasing hcg levels were associated with tumor recurrence . we conclude that this hcg assay based on both anti-peptide and anti-hcg mabs may be useful in tumor monitoring . 
familial cortisol resistance : differential diagnostic and therapeutic aspects . a 26-yr-old woman presented with hirsutism , male pattern scalp baldness ( " geheimratsecken " ) , and menstrual irregularities . she had no hypertension or other signs and symptoms of cushing 's syndrome . plasma cortisol levels were greatly elevated and did not suppress normally in response to dexamethasone . cortisol binding to transcortin was normal . plasma androstenedione and testosterone levels were also increased , but 17-hydroxyprogesterone and aldosterone levels were normal . further studies revealed an increased cortisol production rate , increased 24-h urinary cortisol excretion , increased plasma acth levels , a normal diurnal rhythm of cortisol at an elevated level , and normal increments of plasma acth , cortisol , gh , and prl in response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia . the father and two brothers also had increased plasma cortisol levels , which did not suppress normally in response to dexamethasone . chronic therapy with dexamethasone ( at first 1 and later 0.5 mg , three times daily ) for more than 30 weeks resulted in decreased hirsutism , normalization of scalp hair and menstrual cyclicity , and normal plasma testosterone and androstenedione levels . no signs or symptoms of cushing 's syndrome developed , and the central regulation of secretion of acth , cortisol , gh , and prl ( insulin test , diurnal rhythm ) remained qualitatively normal at a lower set-point . we conclude that this patient had autosomal dominantly inherited hereditary ( partial ) cortisol insensitivity , which had resulted in increased adrenocortical cortisol and androgen secretion . the latter had not resulted in clinical symptoms in the three afflicted male members of the family , but had in the propositus . the results also indicate the potential usefulness of the insulin test in distinguishing this disorder from cushing 's disease . 
differences in the interaction between dopamine and estradiol on prolactin release by cultured normal and tumorous human pituitary cells . we studied the interaction between dopamine and estradiol on prl release by cultured normal and tumorous prl-secreting cells prepared from human pituitaries . if pituitary glands were obtained within 3 h after sudden death of previously normal individuals , the viability of isolated pituitary cells prepared by dispersion with dispase was more than 75 % . after 4 days of culture , dopamine ( 500 nm ) inhibited prl release by cells prepared from four normal pituitaries by 24 + / - 3 % ( + / - sem ) . pretreatment of the cells with 100 nm estradiol did not alter dopamine-mediated inhibition of prl release . estradiol alone increased basal prl release and cell prl content . cultured prl-secreting pituitary tumor cells , obtained by transsphenoidal operation from four patients , were similarly sensitive to dopamine . estradiol stimulated tumor cell prl release and content , but significantly diminished the inhibitory effect of dopamine . the estrogen receptor blocker tamoxifen did not alter prl release , but it did reverse the estradiol-induced insensitivity of the prolactinoma cells to the dopamine agonist bromocriptine . in conclusion , these in vitro results indicate that estrogens do not antagonize the effect of dopamine on normal human prl-secreting pituitary cells . in human pituitary tumor cells , however , estradiol decreased the sensitivity of prl release to dopamine ( agonists ) , and the estrogen action can be acutely reversed by tamoxifen . 
pharmacokinetic properties of testosterone propionate in normal men . the pharmacokinetic characteristics of testosterone propionate were studied in normal men after a single im dose of 25 mg testosterone propionate-19 , 19 , 19-d3 . plasma levels of testosterone propionate-19 , 19 , 19-d3 , its active metabolite testosterone-19 , 19 , 19-d3 , and endogenous testosterone were measured by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry . testosterone propionate-19 , 19 , 19-d3 was gradually transferred from the im injection site to the systemic circulation . the plasma levels of testosterone propionate-19 , 19 , 19-d3 were maintained at 2-4 ng / ml between 3 and 36 h after administration . plasma testosterone-19 , 19 , 19-d3 levels were maintained above the physiological testosterone level for 48 h , while plasma levels of endogenous testosterone changed little . 
use of ketoconazole in the treatment of cushing 's syndrome . the therapeutic value of ketoconazole for long term treatment of patients with cushing 's syndrome was studied . seven patients with cushing 's disease and one with an adrenal adenoma received 600-800 mg / day ketoconazole for 3-13 months . plasma acth , cortisol , and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels and urinary cortisol , 17-ketosteroid , and tetrahydro-11-deoxycortisol excretion were determined periodically during the treatment period . plasma acth and cortisol responses to crh stimulation were determined before and during treatment . rapid and subsequently persistent clinical improvement occurred in each patient ; plasma dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate and urinary 17-ketosteroid and cortisol excretion decreased soon after the initiation of treatment , subsequently remaining normal or nearly so throughout the treatment period . urinary tetrahydro-11-deoxycortisol excretion increased significantly . plasma cortisol levels decreased . plasma acth levels did not change , and individual plasma acth and cortisol increments in response to crh were comparable before and during treatment . the cortisol response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia improved in one patient and was restored to normal in another . the seven patients tested recovered normal adrenal suppressibility in response to a low dose of dexamethasone during ketoconazole treatment . ketoconazole is effective for long term control of hypercortisolism of either pituitary or adrenal origin . its effect appears to be mediated by inhibition of adrenal 11 beta-hydroxylase and 17 , 20-lyase , and it , in some unknown way , prevents the expected rise in acth secretion in patients with cushing 's disease . 
localization and molecular forms of galanin in human adrenals : elevated levels in pheochromocytomas . galanin immunoreactivity was measured by ria , using antibodies directed against both the non-c- and c-terminal positions of porcine galanin , in tissue extracts of normal adrenals and pheochromocytomas and also in the plasma of normal subjects and patients with pheochromocytomas . no c-terminal galanin-like immunoreactivity was detected in plasma or tissue , suggesting differences in the amino acid sequence of human compared with porcine galanin . a non-c-terminally directed antibody was , therefore , used to characterize human galanin immunoreactivity by gel permeation chromatography and reverse phase high pressure liquid chromatography and to localize it by immunocytochemistry . the galanin content of whole adrenal gland was 2.6 + / - 0.9 ( + / - sem ) pmol / g ( n = 5 ) . in contrast , however , pheochromocytomas had much greater concentrations ( 21 + / - 2.3 pmol / g ; n = 16 ) . gel chromatography and reverse phase high pressure liquid chromatography revealed 2 molecular forms of galanin immunoreactivity with identical elution positions in both normal adrenals and tumors . the concentration of galanin in plasma from both normal subjects and pheochromocytoma patients was below the detection limit of the assay ( less than 10 pmol / liter ) . using immunocytochemistry , galanin was localized to scattered cells or clusters of tumor cells in 5 of 11 pheochromocytomas and only a few chromaffin cells and cortical nerve fibers in normal adrenals . 
parathyroid localization . twenty-nine consecutive patients with suspected primary hyperparathyroidism were examined preoperatively using ultrasound , sonographically guided fine needle aspiration , and aspirate immunostaining for pth . in 25 patients , localization of enlarged parathyroid glands was successful . in 2 patients , the tumors were located retrosternally and , thus , could not be detected by ultrasound . one patient had a multinodular goiter which impeded localization . in 1 patient with renal osteodystrophy , 2 enlarged parathyroid glands in the neck were not visualized preoperatively . cytology was not diagnostic , although some cytological features were suggestive of parathyroid cells . immunostaining of the aspirated smears for pth , however , correctly diagnosed all preoperatively localized lesions . ultrasound should be the routine procedure of choice for preoperative localization of abnormal parathyroid glands in primary hyperparathyroidism . fine needle aspiration and immunocytochemistry can supply confirmation , if necessary . 
effect of free fatty acids on the concentration of free thyroxine in human serum : the role of albumin . the concentration of ffa in normal human plasma in vivo generally ranges between 0.2 and 0.7 meq / liter ; slightly higher concentrations have occasionally been reported in patients who are seriously ill . to determine whether such ffa concentrations may increase the concentration of free t4 in serum , we added increasing amounts of oleic acid to pooled normal human serum ( with known ffa content ) and measured free t4 by equilibrium dialysis . total ffa up to 3 meq / liter in normal serum , representing an ffa to albumin molar ratio of about 5 : 1 , had little or no effect on the free t4 concentration , while higher ffa concentrations progressively increased free t4 . this same molar ratio of ffa to albumin had to be exceeded to cause a significant increase in the free t4 concentration in diluted serum and in serum from patients with nonthyroid illness . serum from which more than 95 % of the albumin had been removed by chromatography with affi-gel blue was much more sensitive to the effects of ffa on free t4 . this enhanced sensitivity was reversed by readdition of albumin to the serum , and the addition of albumin to normal serum resulted in diminished effects of ffa on free t4 . these results indicate the following : physiological concentrations of ffa do not significantly increase the free t4 concentration in normal human serum ; when ffa reach supraphysiological concentrations in serum ( in vitro ) and the higher affinity ffa-binding sites on albumin become saturated ( apparently at an ffa to albumin molar ratio of approximately 5 : 1 ) , the excess ffa interact with other serum proteins , including thyroid hormone-binding globulin , and thereby increase the free t4 concentration ; the concentration of albumin ( or other ffa binders ) must be considered when evaluating the observed effects of ffa . to explore the relevance of these findings to the hypothesis that ffa may inhibit the binding of t4 to plasma proteins in patients with nonthyroid illness , we measured plasma ffa concentrations in 11 severely ill patients hospitalized in the intensive care unit . we found a mean plasma ffa concentration of 0.45 + / - 0.11 ( + / - sem ) meq / liter and a mean serum albumin concentration of 2.39 + / - 0.29 g / dl in these patients . their mean plasma ffa to albumin molar ratio was 1.53 + / - 0.41 . since the ffa to albumin molar ratio must exceed about approximately 5 : 1 before a significant increase in the serum free t4 concentration occurs , these results suggest that ffa do not commonly influence the circulating free t4 concentration in vivo , even in severely ill patients . 
decreased bioavailable testosterone in aging normal and impotent men . tissue available ( bioavailable ) testosterone ( t ) includes circulating free t ( ft ) and albumin-bound t . a reasonable assessment of bioavailable t can be made by using 50 % ammonium sulfate to precipitate sex hormone-binding globulin ( shbg ) -bound t . the supernatant non-shbg-bound t ( non-shbg-t ) correlates well with physiological androgen activity . to assess bioavailable t in normal aging men , we analyzed serum samples from seven healthy aged men ( 65-83 yr old ) and compared the results to samples from 13 young men ( 22-39 yr old ) . mean serum t , ft , and lh concentrations were not significantly different in the 2 groups . however , the mean absolute non-shbg-t level was significantly lower ( p less than 0.005 ) in the older group . in a separate population of 20 impotent but otherwise healthy men ( 5 27-37 yr old , 10 48-64 yr old , and 5 66-69 yr old ) , the mean absolute non-shbg-t concentration was lower in middle-aged ( p less than .01 ) and elderly men ( p less than 0.001 ) than in young men . the absolute ft was lower only in the elderly group ( p less than 0.05 ) , while mean lh and t levels were similar in all 3 age groups . these data suggest that serum concentrations of tissue available t are decreased in aged men and that non-shbg-t measurement is a more sensitive indicator of this decrease than are serum t or serum ft measurements . these changes appear to begin by middle age . 
25-hydroxyvitamin d3 metabolism by lipopolysaccharide-stimulated normal human macrophages . cultured normal human pulmonary alveolar macrophages and peripheral blood monocyte-derived macrophages were studied for their capacity to metabolize [ 3h ] 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 ( 25ohd3 ) . incubation of macrophages with bacterial lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) resulted in the conversion of [ 3h ] 25ohd3 to a more polar vitamin d3 metabolite ( up to 15 pmol / 10 ( 6 ) cells ) . untreated macrophages did not synthesize this metabolite . several findings suggested that the metabolite was the biologically active form of vitamin d3 , namely 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 [ 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 ] . ( 1 ) the metabolite comigrated with chemically synthesized 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 on four different high performance liquid chromatographic systems . ( 2 ) the metabolite had the same affinity for the chick intestinal 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 receptor as authentic 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 . ( 3 ) the biological activity of the macrophage metabolite in vivo ( stimulation of intestinal calcium absorption and bone calcium mobilization in rachitic chicks ) was identical to the activity of chemically synthesized 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3 . the lps-stimulated synthesis of the 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3-like compound by macrophages was dose dependent in a linear fashion ; a half-maximal response was typically found with 100-200 ng lps / 10 ( 6 ) cells . polymyxin b abolished the effects of lps on 25ohd3 metabolism in macrophages . our data suggest that lps-stimulated macrophages can modulate , on a local level , the function of 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3-responsive cells by releasing the 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d3-like metabolite . 
treatment of neonatal hyperthyroidism due to graves ' disease with sodium ipodate . we describe the effect of administration of repeated doses of sodium ipodate in a newborn infant with hyperthyroidism due to transient graves ' disease . pretreatment ( day 3 ) serum t4 and t3 concentrations were 49 micrograms / dl and 590 ng / dl , respectively . with 24 h after the first dose of ipodate , serum t3 fell by 40 % , and it subsequently ranged from 209-278 ng / dl throughout the 39-day ipodate treatment period . serum t4 also decreased after ipodate administration to 69 % and 41 % of the pretreatment value after 72 h and 7 days of treatment , respectively ; values thereafter during treatment ranged from 19-22 micrograms / dl . these plateau values are in the upper range of normal for the neonatal period . rapid clinical improvement occurred as the hyperiodothyroninemia abated . serum rt3 concentrations increased from 468-672 ng / dl to greater than 1400 ng / dl 24 h after each ipodate dose . thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulin was present in maternal and cord sera , and the half-life of serum thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulin in the infant was approximately 12 days . antithyroglobulin and antimicrosomal antibodies were present in the infant at 10 days of age , and the titers decreased progressively thereafter ; the half-life for the antimicrosomal antibody titer was 3 weeks . the data suggest that sodium ipodate can be useful for treatment of neonatal hyperthyroidism due to graves ' disease . 
inhibition of thyrotropin-induced growth of rat thyroid cells , frtl-5 , by immunoglobulin g from patients with primary myxedema . we studied thyroid growth-blocking activity in immunoglobulin g ( igg ) fractions of serum from 24 patients with primary myxedema , 24 patients with goitrous hashimoto 's thyroiditis , and 18 normal subjects by measuring the ability of their igg to inhibit tsh-induced [ 3h ] thymidine incorporation into dna in a rat thyroid cell line , frtl-5 . both groups of patients were receiving t4 when studied . [ 3h ] thymidine incorporation induced by 0.1 mu / ml bovine tsh was significantly inhibited by the addition of 2 mg / ml igg from patients with primary myxedema ( p less than 0.01 ) , while it was not affected by igg from the normal subjects or 23 of the 24 patients with goitrous hashimoto 's thyroiditis . igg from patients with primary myxedema also inhibited the [ 3h ] thymidine incorporation induced by graves ' igg , but not that induced by forskolin , cholera toxin , ( bu ) 2camp or phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate . the inhibition of tsh-induced [ 3h ] thymidine incorporation by iggs from patients with primary myxedema was significantly correlated with their inhibitory activities against both tsh-induced camp generation and tsh binding ( p less than 0.001 ) . these data indicate that these growth-blocking antibodies are directed against the tsh receptor and might be one of the causes of the thyroid atrophy in patients with primary myxedema . 
steroidogenesis in the human fetal adrenal : a role for cholesterol synthesized de novo . primary monolayer cultures of human fetal adrenal cells maintained in either lipoprotein-depleted or lipoprotein-supplemented media responded chronically to acth treatment with similarly increased steroid secretion . the principal steroid secreted into each medium was dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate . the presence of human low density lipoprotein ( hldl ) in the medium enhanced the secretion of nonsulfoconjugated steroids , especially dehydroepiandrosterone . the secretion rate of 11 beta-hydroxyandrostenedione was similar to that of cortisol . in the absence of hldl , acth increased cholesterologenesis to maintain the high rates of steroid secretion . after acth treatment , increased accumulation of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme a reductase , a rate-determining enzyme of cholesterol biosynthesis , was found . immunoblot analysis demonstrated that this enzyme was a 97k protein in human fetal adrenal cells . interestingly , the content of this enzyme in cells treated with acth in lipoprotein-depleted medium was similar to that in adrenal fetal zone tissue . this finding suggests that cholesterologenesis de novo in addition to plasma ldl is important as a source of steroid precursor in vivo in the human fetal adrenal gland . 
the effect of luteal phase estrogen antagonism on luteinizing hormone pulsatility and luteal function in women . pulsatile lh secretion was studied to determine if the frequency of lh pulses was altered by the administration of clomiphene citrate ( cc ; 150 mg ) for 5 days during the midluteal phase of the menstrual cycle . seven normal women received cc or placebo in alternate cycles in a randomized double blind fashion . on the day after drug administration , blood samples were obtained at 15-min intervals for 8 h for serum lh determinations . daily blood samples were also obtained throughout the luteal phase for determination of serum lh , estradiol ( e2 ) , and progesterone . lh pulse frequency increased from 2.4 + / - 0.5 ( + / - sem ) / 8 h after placebo to 3.9 + / - 0.6 / 8 h ( p less than 0.01 ) after cc treatment , but pulse amplitude did not change . the transverse mean of serum lh was higher after cc ( 13.6 + / - 0.5 miu / ml ) than after placebo ( 8.4 + / - 0.3 miu / ml ; p less than 0.001 ) , and luteal phase length was increased from 13.5 + / - 0.5 to 16.0 + / - 0.4 days ( p less than 0.001 ) by administration of cc . luteal phase levels of e2 and progesterone measured daily were significantly elevated ( p less than 0.01 ) in cc-treated cycles . these findings suggest that cc increases the frequency of hypothalamic gnrh secretory episodes , perhaps by an action involving a decrease in endogenous opioid peptide activity . since peripheral progesterone levels were elevated in the cc-treated cycles , e2 may play a permissive role in the ability of progesterone to increase endogenous opioid peptide activity acutely . furthermore , since the luteal phase was significantly prolonged by an increase in endogenous lh pulse frequency , the slow frequency of lh pulses in the normal late luteal phase may contribute to the onset of luteolysis in the human . 
estradiol , estriol , progesterone , prolactin , and human chorionic gonadotropin in pregnant women with alcohol abuse . serum estradiol , estriol , progesterone , prl , and hcg concentrations were measured at 4-week intervals in 40 pregnant women who chronically abused alcohol and in 20 abstinent pregnant women . sixteen alcohol users gave birth to infants with the fetal alcohol syndrome ( fas ) , whereas the remaining 24 infants of alcohol users and all infants of the abstinent women were healthy . the women whose infants had the fas had decreased estradiol and estriol levels throughout pregnancy . progesterone levels also tended to be low . in contrast , the alcohol users had increased prl levels during the 16-24th weeks of pregnancy compared with those in the abstinent women , but this rise was not related to the fas . the concentrations of hcg fluctuated widely , without any consistent difference between alcohol users and abstinent women . thus , heavy maternal abuse of alcohol resulting in fas is accompanied , primarily or secondarily , by reduced estrogen concentrations throughout pregnancy and increased prl levels during the 16-24th weeks of pregnancy . 
effect of 64-hour sleep deprivation on the circadian waveform of thyrotropin ( tsh ) : further evidence of sleep-related inhibition of tsh release . half-hourly sampling of plasma tsh was done across 3 days in four normal young men . sleep was denied for 64 h from 0700 h on awakening from accommodation sleep until polygraphic sleep was resumed at 7100 h of the third day ( d3 ) such that 2 consecutive nights of usual 2300-0700 h sleep were missed . this protocol allowed examination of any modulatory effects on the daily patterns in tsh concentrations during sleep deprivation on d1-2 ( 1100-3500 , 3500-5900 h ) or during resumption of usual nightly sleep on d3 ( 5900-8300 ) compared to that of a previously studied group of normal young men . the circadian nature of the daily tsh waveform was evidenced by its daily repetition within a subject both basally and during d1-2 sleep deprivation and by its synchronization within the basal , deprived , or resumed sleep days . the peaks in each subject 's daily tsh patterns on d1-2 were consistently longer , and the daily maxima and cosine acrophases on d1-2 were consistently later than those on d3 when basal sleep was resumed . about half the daily tsh concentration maxima and daily cosinor amplitudes on d1-2 were greater than those of the respective sleep-resumed tsh patterns of d3 . both the group mean tsh patterns and the cosinor 95 % confidence ellipses also indicated the daily peak in the tsh waveform to be significantly longer , later , and larger during d1-2 sleep deprivation than during the basal or d3 periods . these results indicate that significant alteration of the daily tsh waveform can occur in response to absence of sleep and are compatible with the existence of an inhibitory effect in early nightly sleep on tsh release . the tsh patterns during the 1700-2300 h intervals of rising tsh levels were congruent in the basal , deprived , and resumed sleep periods . prompt reversion to the basal tsh pattern also occurred when sleep was resumed on d3 . both of these observations suggest the alteration in tsh waveform during sleep deprivation to have arisen from an inhibitory effect in sleep rather than from a change in period or phase of a generating oscillator . 
resistance to insulin suppression of plasma free fatty acid concentrations and insulin stimulation of glucose uptake in noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . the ability of insulin to stimulate tissue glucose uptake and lower plasma ffa concentrations was quantified in 12 individuals with normal glucose tolerance and 12 patients with noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) , further subdivided into obese and nonobese subjects . measurements were made during 5-h glucose clamp studies , carried out at plasma insulin concentrations of about 10 microu / ml ( 0-150 min ) and about 60 microu / ml ( 150-300 min ) . differences between the patient groups were compared by two-way analysis of variance . the ability of insulin to either suppress plasma ffa concentrations or stimulate glucose uptake was significantly reduced ( p less than 0.001 ) in patients with niddm , and this was true of both the obese and nonobese groups . the defect in the ability of insulin to suppress plasma ffa concentrations in patients with niddm was more apparent at the lower insulin concentration , whereas resistance to insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in niddm was more dramatic at the high insulin concentration . finally , a significant correlation ( r = -0.67 ; p less than 0.001 ) between insulin-stimulated glucose uptake and plasma ffa concentration was found in the entire group . these data emphasize the fact that patients with niddm are resistant to multiple actions of insulin , and that the magnitudes of the defect in insulin suppression of plasma ffa levels and stimulation of tissue glucose uptake are roughly comparable . 
cyclical edema and hypokalemia due to occult episodic hypercorticism . yearly episodes of edema , hypokalemia , anxiety , and depression were found to be due to cortisol and deoxycorticosterone surges secondary to a pituitary adenoma in a woman without any of the usual clinical features of cushing 's syndrome . during the long clinical remissions , she had no recognizable laboratory abnormality . she had two episodes in the year following incomplete transphenoidal pituitary tumor resection , but has had none in 2 yr since receiving radiotherapy . the episodes were caused by mineralocorticoid actions of large acth-induced increases in cortisol and deoxycorticosterone secretion . a history of episodic edema and hypokalemia , often attributed in women to surreptitious diuretic abuse , requires a careful search for hypercorticism even in the absence of clinical cushing 's syndrome . 
circulating 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d concentrations in patients with renal cell carcinoma-associated hypercalcemia are rarely suppressed . we measured serum 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d concentrations in 18 patients with renal cell carcinoma-associated hypercalcemia . only 2 patients ( 11 % ) had low serum 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d ( less than 15 pg / ml ) levels , and the mean 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d level in the 18 patients was 44 + / - 30 ( + / - sd ) pg / ml , not different from the value of 42 + / - 22 pg / ml in 75 age-matched normocalcemic patients with various malignancies . eighty-seven percent ( 26 of 30 ) of the hypercalcemic patients with extensive skeletal metastases due to other malignancies or with hematological malignancies had suppressed serum 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d levels ( less than 15 pg / ml ) . in hypercalcemic patients with other malignancies and no skeletal metastases , only 54 % ( 21 of 39 ) had low serum 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d levels . the mean serum 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d level in the latter group was 21 + / - 26 pg / ml , significantly lower than that in normocalcemic patients . in renal cell carcinoma-associated hypercalcemia , suppression of circulating 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d concentrations is uncommon . 
the effects of hyperinsulinemia on serum testosterone , progesterone , dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate , and cortisol levels in normal women and in a woman with hyperandrogenism , insulin resistance , and acanthosis nigricans . insulin may mediate the hyperandrogenism that frequently occurs in patients with insulin-resistant states . to test this hypothesis , we studied five normal women and one woman with hyperandrogenism , insulin resistance , and acanthosis nigricans with the hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp technique . each woman received a 0.1 u / kg insulin bolus dose , followed by a 10 mu / kg x min insulin infusion for 12-16 h . in the normal women , an average insulin level of 1832 + / - 292 ( + / - sem ) microu / ml was achieved ; serum glucose was clamped at 116 + / - 5 mg / dl . at this level , insulin may bind to the insulin-like growth factor i receptor as well as to its own receptor . contrary to our working hypothesis , a rise in serum testosterone did not occur in any women during insulin infusion , and in one women , serum testosterone levels decreased . when analyzed as a percentage of the basal value , serum progesterone levels fell 20 % in the normal women within the first 2 h of insulin infusion , but did not change thereafter . dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate ( dhea-s ) levels , however , uniformly and progressively decreased by 39 % after 12 h of insulin infusion in the normal women and by 31 % at 14 h in the woman with hyperandrogenism , insulin resistance , and acanthosis nigricans . the fall in serum dhea-s levels was not due to diurnal rhythmicity , as the changes in serum dhea-s levels did not correlated with those in serum cortisol . suppression of prl release also was excluded as a cause of the fall in dhea-s levels . these results indicate that acute hyperinsulinemia of 12- to 16-h duration does not increase serum testosterone or dhea-s concentrations and , indeed , can cause a decline in serum dhea-s levels in both normal women and the single woman studied with hyperandrogenism , insulin resistance , and acanthosis nigricans . 
increased renal sensitivity to vasopressin in two patients with essential hypernatremia . patients with essential hypernatremia maintain urinary concentrating ability despite plasma hyperosmolality and low plasma vasopressin concentrations . we investigated renal sensitivity to ultralow dose vasopressin infusions in two patients with a syndrome of hypodipsia , hypernatremia with selective osmoreceptor dysfunction , early puberty , and aggressive behavior . the patients were water loaded until a hypotonic diuresis was established . vasopressin was infused in stepwise increments from 0.4-12 fmol / kg x min . both patients had increased renal sensitivity to vasopressin , achieving negative free water clearance at infusion rates of 0.4 and 4 fmol / kg x min ( normal greater than or equal to 6 ) . treatment for 3 months with 1-desamino-8-d-arginine vasopressin ( ddavp ) led to an improvement in behavior and the reporting , for the first time , of a sensation of thirst . after ddavp therapy both patients had a reduction of their renal sensitivity to infused vasopressin . we conclude that untreated patients with essential hypernatremia have increased renal sensitivity to vasopressin which is reduced by ddavp administration . 
plasma oxytocin increases in the human sexual response . the purpose of this study was to determine whether plasma oxytocin ( ot ) levels change during human sexual responses and , if so , to demonstrate the temporal pattern of change . plasma ot levels were measured by ria before , during , and after private self-stimulation to orgasm in normal men ( n = 9 ) and women ( n = 13 ) . blood samples were collected continuously through indwelling venous catheters . the subjects pressed a signal to indicate the start and finish of orgasm / ejaculation . objective assessment of sexual arousal and orgasm was obtained by measuring blood-pulse amplitude and electromyographic activity , recorded continuously throughout testing from an anal device containing a photoplethysmograph and electromyograph electrodes connected to a polygraph located in an adjacent room . these measures allowed collection of data from men and women of changes in blood flow and muscle activity in the lower pelvic / pubic area . plasma ot levels increased during sexual arousal in both women and men and were significantly higher during orgasm / ejaculation than during prior baseline testing . we suggest that the temporal pattern of secretion could be related to smooth muscle contractions of the reproductive system during orgasm . 
binding of monoclonal antibody ( 4f2 ) to its cell surface antigen on dispersed adenomatous parathyroid cells raises cytosolic calcium and inhibits parathyroid hormone secretion . in the course of characterizing monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) recognizing cell surface antigens on dispersed human parathyroid cells ( dptcs ) , we identified one mab ( 4f2 ) that bound avidly to parathyroid cells and had marked effects on parathyroid function . the binding of mab 4f2 to human adenomatous dptcs resulted in a marked [ 53.8 + / - 7.9 % ( + / - sem ) ] reduction in low calcium ( ca ) -stimulated pth secretion to levels equivalent to those in cell suppressed by high extracellular ca ( 1.5 mm ) . typically , these functional effects were optimal at antibody dilutions of 1 : 10 ( 4 ) to 1 : 10 ( 5 ) . cell viability was confirmed at the conclusion of each experiment by trypan blue exclusion ( greater than 90-95 % ) and cell surface immunofluorescence . parallel studies using the ca-sensitive dye quin-2 showed that inhibition of pth secretion in 4f2-treated cells was associated with a concomitant increase in cytosolic ca ( cai ) of 188 % in 0.5 mm ca ; these values also approached cai levels in control cells incubated in high ca . mab controls , p3 x 63 , which do not bind to dptcs , and mab lc7-2 , which recognizes a different epitope of the same antigen as 4f2 on dptcs , did not alter pth secretion or cai . immunoprecipitation of 125i-labeled parathyroid cell extracts with mab 4f2 demonstrated proteins with mol wt of approximately 145 , 85 , and 45 under nonreducing conditions and 85 and 45 kilodaltons after reduction with 5 % mercaptoethanol . these studies suggest that 1 ) mab-4f2 binding to its cell surface antigen inhibits pth secretion by human adenomatous parathyroid cells in vitro ; 2 ) the alterations in secretory function could be related to by an attendant increase in cai ; 3 ) the 4f2 antigen on dptcs is a heterodimeric protein of ( approximately ) 85k and 45k ; and 4 ) the 4f2 antigen may be an important component of the ca-sensing and / or signal-transducing mechanism in this cell . 
effects of sex and age on the 24-hour profile of growth hormone secretion in man : importance of endogenous estradiol concentrations . we undertook a study of the separate and combined effects of age and sex on the pulsatile pattern of gh secretion . the 24-h secretory profile of gh was generated by 20-min sampling in 10 young women ( aged 18-33 yr ) , 10 young men ( aged 18-33 yr ) , 8 postmenopausal women ( aged greater than 55 yr ) , and 8 older men ( aged greater than 55 yr ) . a computer-assisted pulse analysis program was used to assess both total gh secretion , as reflected in the 24-h integrated gh concentration ( ighc ) , and pulsatile secretion , as denoted by pulse frequency , duration , amplitude , and the fraction of gh secreted in pulses during the 24-h period ( fghp ) . ighc was significantly greater in women than in men ( p less than 0.025 ) and greater in the young than in the old ( p less than 0.003 ) . the mean pulse amplitude , duration , and fghp were each greater in the young ( p less than 0.006 , p less than 0.03 , and p less than 0.0001 , respectively ) , but not significantly different between the sexes . the mean pulse frequency was not affected by sex or age . the serum concentration of free estradiol , but not free testosterone , correlated with ighc ( r = 0.46 ; p less than 0.005 ) , pulse amplitude ( r = 0.53 ; p less than 0.001 ) , and fghp ( r = 0.59 ; p less than 0.0002 ) . after correcting for the effects of estradiol , neither sex nor age influenced ighc or mean pulse amplitude , while the effect of age on fghp was reduced from 81 % to 29 % . of the indices of gh secretion , fghp had the strongest correlation ( r = 0.43 ; p less than 0.006 ) with somatomedin-c . somatomedin-c declined significantly with age in both sexes . our results indicate that sex and age have independent and interrelated effects on gh secretion . these effects can be largely accounted for by corresponding variations in endogenous estradiol levels . these observations suggest an amplifying action of estradiol on the neuroendocrine regulation of pulsatile gh release . 
angiotensin ii and vasopressin stimulate calcium-activated chloride conductance in rat mesangial cells . in an attempt to clarify the mechanisms by which angiotensin ii ( aii ) and arginine vasopressin ( avp ) regulate mesangial cell function , we examined the membrane potential change of mesangial cells and found that cells contracted and membrane potential depolarized in response to aii and avp . the depolarization was associated with decreased input resistance . ca ionophore a23187 caused similar mesangial cell contraction and depolarization . the reversal potential ( vr ) of the depolarization response to aii and avp was -29 + / - 3 and -25 + / - 7 mv ( mean + / - sd ) , respectively . not only the vr of the aii-induced depolarization but also vr of the ca ionophore-induced response was dependent upon the extracellular cl- concentration . further , aii and avp caused cell contraction and membrane depolarization in ca++-free medium containing 0.5 mm egta . these data suggest the presence of ca++ -activated cl- channels in the mesangial cells and that aii and avp increase cl- permeability via an elevation of [ ca++ ] i released from the intracellular organellae . 
osteogenesis imperfecta type iv . biochemical confirmation of genetic linkage to the pro alpha 2 ( i ) gene of type i collagen . fibroblasts from two affected members of a large pedigree in which osteogenesis imperfecta ( oi ) type iv is genetically linked to the pro alpha 2 ( i ) gene of type i collagen synthesize two populations of pro alpha 2 ( i ) chains . one population is normal ; the second population appears to have a deletion of about 10 amino acid residues from the middle of the triple helical domain . the mutation in pro alpha 2 ( i ) causes increased posttranslational modification in the amino-terminal half of some pro alpha 1 ( i ) chains , lowers the melting temperature of type i collagen molecules that incorporate a mutant pro alpha 2 ( i ) chain , and prevents or delays the secretion of those molecules from fibroblasts in cell culture . on the basis of this study and linkage studies in additional families , it appears that the oi type iv phenotype is often the result of heterozygosity for mutations in pro alpha 2 ( i ) that alter the triple helical structure of type i collagen . 
arterial hemodynamics in human hypertension . differences in aortic impedance between normotensives and hypertensives are not well characterized . we examined impedance in 8 normotensive and 11 hypertensive ( mean 96.7 vs . 122.2 mmhg ) age-matched , chinese patients undergoing cardiac catheterization at rest , during nitroprusside , and handgrip exercise before and after beta blockade ( propranolol ) . hypertensives had higher resistance ( 2 , 295 vs . 1713 dyn-s / cm5 ) , characteristic impedance ( 145.7 vs . 93.9 dyn-s / cm5 ) , total external power ( 1 , 579 vs . 1174 mw ) , peripheral reflections ( ratio of backward to forward wave components of 0.54 vs . 0.44 ) , and first zero crossing of impedance phase angle ( 4.15 vs . 2.97 hz ) . these abnormalities were eliminated with vasodilatation . differences between groups were not further exacerbated when pressure was increased during handgrip exercise . beta blockade further increased resistance and reflections . thus , hemodynamic abnormalities of essential hypertension ( increased resistance , reflections , and pulse wave velocity , and decreased compliance ) are compatible with an increased vasomotor tone that is further unmasked during generalized beta blockade . 
electrogenic sodium / bicarbonate cotransport in rabbit renal cortical basolateral membrane vesicles . the present studies examined the mechanism of bicarbonate transport across basolateral membrane vesicles prepared from rabbit renal cortex . isotopic sodium uptake was stimulated by bicarbonate when compared with gluconate ( 2.5 nmol / mg protein per 5 s versus 1.4 nmol / mg protein per 5 s ) , and this process was inhibited by disulfonic stilbenes . imposition of an interior-positive potassium diffusion potential further stimulated isotopic sodium uptake to 3.4 nmol / mg protein per 5 s , an effect that occurred only in the presence of bicarbonate and was blocked by disulfonic stilbenes . kinetic analysis of the rate of bicarbonate-dependent sodium uptake as a function of sodium concentration revealed saturable stimulation with a vmax of 2.7 nmol / mg protein per 2 s and a km of 10.4 mm . the effect of bicarbonate concentration on bicarbonate-dependent sodium uptake was more complex . the present results demonstrate an electrogenic ( negatively charged ) sodium / bicarbonate cotransporter in basolateral membrane vesicles from the rabbit renal cortex . the electrogenicity implies a stoichiometry of at least two bicarbonate ions for each sodium ion . 
cation depletion by the sodium pump in red cells with pathologic cation leaks . sickle cells and xerocytes . the mechanism by which sickle cells and xerocytic red cells become depleted of cations in vivo has not been identified previously . both types of cells exhibit elevated permeabilities to sodium and potassium , in the case of sickle cells , when deoxygenated . the ouabain-insensitive fluxes of sodium and potassium were equivalent , however , in both cell types under these conditions . when incubated 18 hours in vitro , sickle cells lost cations but only when deoxygenated . this cation depletion was blocked by ouabain , removal of external potassium , or pretreatment with 4 , 4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2 , 2'-disulfonate , which blocks the increase in cation permeability induced by deoxygenation . the loss of cation exhibited by oxygenated xerocytes similarly incubated was also blocked by ouabain . these data support the hypothesis that the elevated " passive " cation fluxes of xerocytes and deoxygenated sickle cells are not directly responsible for cation depletion of these cells ; rather , these pathologic leaks interact with the sodium pump to produce a net loss of cellular cation . 
investigations of the simian ontogenic switch from fetal to adult hemoglobin at the progenitor cell level . the ontogenic switch from fetal to adult hemoglobin could result from discontinuous events , such as replacement of fetal erythroid progenitor cells by adult ones , or gradual modulation of the hemoglobin program of a single progenitor cell pool . the former would result in progenitors at midswitch with skewed fractional beta-globin synthesis programs , the latter in a gaussian distribution . for these studies , we obtained bone marrow from rhesus monkey fetuses at 141-153 d ( midswitch ) . mononuclear cells were cultured in methyl cellulose with erythropoietin , and single bfu-e-derived colonies were removed and incubated with [ 3h ] leucine . globin synthesis was examined by gel electrophoresis and fluorography . the beta-globin synthesis pattern of single fetal colonies was skewed , and did not fit a normal distribution . the fetal pattern resembled the pattern of an artificial mixture of fetal and adult progenitors , suggesting that the fetal progenitor pool could contain populations with different beta-globin programs . this non-gaussian distribution in the progenitors of midswitch fetuses is consistent with a discontinuous model for hemoglobin switching during ontogeny . 
radioimmunoassay of growth hormone-dependent insulinlike growth factor binding protein in human plasma . a specific radioimmunoassay has been established for a growth hormone-dependent insulinlike growth factor ( igf ) binding protein ( bp ) from human plasma . although the assay was directed against a 53-kd , acid-stable bp subunit , the main immunoreactive bp in the circulation had an apparent molecular mass of approximately 125 kd . only higher primate species showed cross-reactivity , and igf-i , igf-ii , and other peptides were without effect . circulating bp levels in healthy subjects rose threefold from early childhood to puberty . in 65 adults aged 18 to 65 , the mean level ( + / - sd ) was 6.12 + / - 1.43 micrograms / ml , and declined with age . strong growth hormone-dependence of bp was also seen ; there was a 2.2-fold increase in active acromegaly and a 50-80 % reduction in growth hormone deficiency . poorly controlled diabetic subjects had bp levels 40 % below normal , whereas in renal failure and third-term pregnancy a mild elevation was seen . measurement of bp may provide a useful adjunct to igf assays in growth disorders . 
association of plasma lipoproteins with postheparin lipase activities . studies were designed to explore the association of lipoprotein lipase ( lpl ) and hepatic triglyceride lipase ( htgl ) activities with lipoproteins in human postheparin plasma ( php ) . the major peak of lpl activity after gel filtration of php eluted after the triglyceride-rich lipoproteins and just before the peak of low density lipoprotein ( ldl ) cholesterol . when php contained chylomicrons , an additional peak of lpl activity eluted in the void volume of the column . most htgl activity eluted after the ldl and preceded the elution of high density lipoprotein cholesterol . lpl activity in preheparin plasma eluted in the same position , relative to lipoproteins , as did lpl in php . gel filtration of purified human milk lpl mixed with plasma or isolated ldl produced a peak of activity eluting before ldl . during gel filtration of php in high salt buffer ( 1 m nacl ) or after isolation of lipoproteins by ultracentrifugation in high salt density solutions , most of the lipase activity was not associated with lipoproteins . lpl activity was removed from php by elution through immunoaffinity columns containing antibodies to apolipoprotein ( apo ) b and apo e . since lipoproteins in php have undergone prior in vivo lipolysis , lpl activity in php may be bound to remnants of chylomicrons and very low density lipoproteins . 
influence of calcium or 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 supplementation on the hepatic microsomal and in vivo metabolism of vitamin d3 in vitamin d-depleted rats . hypocalcemic vitamin d ( d ) -depleted rats were supplemented with calcium or 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 , and the metabolism of d3 to 25 ( oh ) d3 was studied . infusion with 7 or 65 pmol 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 x 24 h-1 led to normal or slight hypercalcemia associated with physiological and supraphysiological plasma concentrations of the hormone while calcium supplementation normalized plasma calcium despite 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 concentrations as low as those observed in hypocalcemic controls . constant administrations of [ 14c ] d3 during the supplementation regimens uncovered a stimulation of the in vivo 25 ( oh ) d3 production by calcium supplementation ; this was further confirmed in vitro by an increase in the hepatic microsomal d3-25 hydroxylase . the group supplemented with pharmacological doses of the hormone displayed lower circulating concentrations of both d3 and 25 ( oh ) d3 while the in vitro 25 ( oh ) d3 production remained unaffected by 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 . investigation of the kinetics of intravenous 25 ( oh ) [ 3h ] d3 revealed similar elimination constants in all groups . the data indicate that calcium supplementation of hypocalcemic d-depleted rats results in an increased transformation of d3 into 25 ( oh ) d3 while supplementation with 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 does not affect the in vitro d3-25 hydroxylase but seems to influence the in vivo handling of the vitamin by accelerating its metabolism . 
axial heterogeneity of bicarbonate , chloride , and water transport in the rat proximal convoluted tubule . effects of change in luminal flow rate and of alkalemia . these studies examined regulation of superficial proximal convoluted tubule ( pct ) transport as a function of length . when single nephron glomerular filtration rate ( sngfr ) increased from 28.7 + / - 0.7 nl / min in hydropenia to 41.5 + / - 0.4 nl / min in euvolemia , bicarbonate , chloride , and water reabsorption in the early ( 1st mm ) pct increased proportionally : from 354 + / - 21 peq / mm x min , 206 + / - 55 peq / mm x min , and 5.9 + / - 0.4 nl / mm x min to 520 + / - 12 peq / mm x min , 585 + / - 21 peq / mm x min , and 10.1 + / - 0.4 nl / mm x min , respectively . these high transport rates did not increase further , however , when sngfr went to 51.2 + / - 0.7 or 50.7 + / - 0.6 nl / min after atrial natriuretic factor or glucagon administration . anion and water transport rates in the late pct were lower and exhibited less flow dependence . during chronic metabolic alkalosis , acidification was inhibited in the late but not early pct . in conclusion , the early pct is distinguished from the late pct by having high-capacity , flow-responsive but saturable , anion- and water-reabsorptive processes relatively unaffected by alkalemia . 
determinants of 24-hour energy expenditure in man . methods and results using a respiratory chamber . daily human energy requirements calculated from separate components of energy expenditure are inaccurate and usually in poor agreement with measured energy intakes . measurement of energy expenditure over periods of 24 h or longer is needed to determine more accurately rates of daily energy expenditure in humans . we provide a detailed description of a human respiratory chamber and methods used to determine rates of energy expenditure over 24-h periods in 177 subjects . the results show that : fat-free mass ( ffm ) as estimated by densitometry is the best available determinant of 24-h energy expenditures ( 24ee ) and explains 81 % of the variance observed between individuals ( 24ee [ kcal / d ] = 597 + 26.5 ffm ) ; 24ee in an individual is very reproducible ( coefficient of variation = 2.4 % ) ; and even when adjusted for differences in ffm , there is still considerable interperson variability of the daily energy expenditure . a large portion of the variability of 24ee among individuals , independent of differences in body size , was due to variability in the degree of spontaneous physical activity , i.e. , " fidgeting , " which accounted for 100-800 kcal / d in these subjects . 
cotton dust-mediated lung epithelial injury . to determine if constituents of cotton plants might play a role in byssinosis by injuring pulmonary epithelium , we added extracts of cotton dust , green bract , and field-dried bract to human a549 and rat type ii pneumocytes . injury was measured as pneumocyte lysis and detachment , and inhibition of protein synthesis . extracts of cotton dust and field-dried bract produced significant dose- and time-dependent lysis and detachment of both target cells , while green bract extract was less damaging . extracts treated with polyvinylpolypyrrolidone to remove tannins produced significantly less injury . in contrast , purified 5 , 7 , 3 ' , 4'-tetrahydroxy-flavan 3 , 4-diol ( thf ) , a tannin in cotton dust and bract , caused substantial cell damage . field-dried bract extract and thf also produced dose-dependent inhibition of pneumocyte protein synthesis . endotoxin levels did not correlate with observed injury . thf added to rat tracheal explants caused epithelial disruption and desquamation , whereas endotoxin did not . instillation of cotton dust and field-dried bract extract in rat lungs produced disruption of bronchial epithelium and smooth muscle constriction , while polyvinylpolypyrrolidone-treated cotton dust extract produced no injury . these findings suggest that extracts of cotton plants are toxic to alveolar , tracheal , and bronchial epithelium and that thf or other tannins may be the responsible agents . 
attachment of human c5a des arg to its cochemotaxin is required for maximum expression of chemotactic activity . the chemotactic activity of human c5a des arg is enhanced significantly by an anionic polypeptide ( cochemotaxin ) in normal human serum and plasma . we have found that the cochemotaxin attaches to the oligosaccharide chain of native c5a des arg to form a complex with potent chemotactic activity for human polymorphonuclear leukocytes . although capable of enhancing the chemotactic activity of native c5a des arg , the cochemotaxin had no effect on the chemotactic activity of either deglycosylated c5a des arg , native c5a , or n-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine . of the known components of the oligosaccharide chain , only sialic acid prevented enhancement by the cochemotaxin of the chemotactic activity exhibited by native c5a des arg . sialic acid also prevented the formation of c5a des arg-cochemotaxin complexes , detected by acid polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis , molecular sieve chromatography on polyacrylamide gels , and sucrose density gradient ultracentrifugation . 
enhancement of secretagogue-induced phosphoinositide turnover and amylase secretion by bile acids in isolated rat pancreatic acini . small amounts ( 0.1-0.5 mm ) of deoxycholate enhanced amylase secretion , which had been induced by submaximal doses of carbachol or cholecystokinin octapeptide , without affecting the maximal levels of these reactions from isolated rat pancreatic acini . deoxycholate alone did not induce these reactions . the other bile acids such as cholate , chenodeoxycholate , ursodeoxycholate , and taurocholate were also active . under the similar conditions , deoxycholate enhanced the secretagogue-induced diacylglycerol formation that was derived mainly from the phospholipase c-mediated hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol and phosphatidylinositol-4-monophosphate . deoxycholate did not enhance the secretagogue-induced hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol-4 , 5-bisphosphate or ca2+ mobilization . deoxycholate did not affect amylase secretion , which was induced by the simultaneous addition of protein kinase c-activating 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate and ca2+ ionophore ionomycin . since diacylglycerol and ca2+ may be responsible for the secretagogue-induced amylase secretion , our results indicate that small amounts of bile acids increase the sensitivity to the secretagogue of diacylglycerol formation and subsequent activation of protein kinase c , and thereby enhance amylase secretion from pancreatic acini . 
cyclic adenosine monophosphate-stimulated anion transport in rabbit cortical collecting duct . kinetics , stoichiometry , and conductive pathways . cyclic amp stimulates hco3 secretion and cl self-exchange in rabbit cortical collecting tubule . we found that varying peritubular [ cl ] changed the cl self-exchange rate with saturation kinetics ( km , 3-4 mm ) . hco3 secretion also showed saturation kinetics as a function of mean luminal [ cl ] ( km , 4-11 mm ) . both cl self-exchange and cl-hco3 exchange thus appear to be carrier-mediated . addition / removal of basolateral hco3 qualitatively changed cl and hco3 transport as expected for cl-hco3 exchange , but quantitatively changed cl absorption more than hco3 secretion . the diffusive cl permeability and the transepithelial conductance in the presence of hco3 / co2 and camp were higher than in their absence suggesting that hco3 / co2 and camp together increase a conductive cl pathway parallel to a 1 : 1 cl-hco3 exchanger . thus , camp not only stimulates the overall process of anion exchange ( probably by increasing an electroneutral exchanger and / or a series cl conductance ) , but also stimulates a cl conductance parallel to the exchange process . 
correlation between pathogenicity and temperature sensitivity in different strains of histoplasma capsulatum . we compared the mycelial to yeast transitions of the downs strain of histoplasma capsulatum ( low level of virulence ) with those of g184a and g222b , two more virulent strains having different levels of pathogenicity for mice . when the morphological transitions are initiated by a temperature shift from 25 degrees to 37 degrees c , all three strains undergo similar physiological changes , but these are less severe in g184a and g222b than in the downs strain . the transitions from mycelial to yeast morphology in both of the more virulent strains are also one-third more rapid than in downs . we also find that the differences in temperature sensitivity of the three strains can be correlated with the temperature required for complete uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation . the differences in sensitivity to elevated temperatures extend to the growth of yeast cells of all three strains . considered together , our results suggest that sensitivity to elevated temperatures may be a key factor accounting for differences in virulence and that uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation may be the primary event in the morphological transition in all three strains . 
molecular defect in the membrane skeleton of blood bank-stored red cells . abnormal spectrin-protein 4.1-actin complex formation . during liquid preservation under blood bank conditions , red cell membranes inexorably undergo damage that decreases erythrocyte survival after transfusion . accordingly , we have surveyed membrane skeletal protein interactions during storage . we uncovered a decrease in the in vitro formation of spectrin-actin complex in the absence ( 50 % ) or presence ( 60 % ) of protein 4.1 . actual formation of the spectrin-actin-protein 4.1 complex fell in a linear fashion during the storage period . this fall in spectrin-actin interaction tightly correlated with the decline in total red cell phospholipid ( r = 0.9932 ) measured simultaneously . this decrement of spectrin-actin association could be restored to greater than 70 % of normal values by preincubation of stored spectrin with 50 mm dithiothreitol . this storage injury to spectrin-actin interaction might weaken the membrane skeleton and lead to decreased red cell survival . in vitro reversibility of the damage by reducing agents suggests a possible new direction for prolonging the shelf life of stored blood . 
platelet-activating factor . a potent chemotactic and chemokinetic factor for human eosinophils . platelet-activating factor ( paf-acether ) , an inflammatory mediator with a wide range of biological activities including neutrophil aggregation and chemotaxis , was studied for its effect on human eosinophil locomotion ( chemotaxis and chemokinesis ) . human eosinophils ( 25-95 % purity ) were obtained from donors with a variety of diseases associated with hypereosinophilia . paf-acether elicited directional locomotion of eosinophils , in a time- and dose-dependent fashion , at concentrations from 10 ( -5 ) to 10 ( -8 ) m ; lyso-paf had minimal activity over the same dose range . compared with paf-acether , the eosinophil locomotory responsiveness of leukotriene b4 ( ltb4 ) , histamine , and the valyl- and alanyl-eosinophil chemotactic factor of anaphylaxis ( ecf-a ) tetrapeptides was negligible . conversely , neutrophil responsiveness to paf-acether ( optimum 10 ( -6 ) m ) was comparable in effect to ltb4 ( optimum dose 10 ( -8 ) m ) . it was shown that paf-acether elicited both chemotaxis and chemokinesis of eosinophils . comparison of normal density and light density eosinophils revealed no qualitative difference in the response to paf-acether and the other chemoattractants , although the light density cells seemed to demonstrate a greater degree of locomotion to paf-acether and ltb4 . thus , paf-acether appears to be a potent eosinophilotactic agent which may play a role in inflammatory reactions characterized by eosinophil infiltration . 
analysis of the apolipoprotein b gene and messenger ribonucleic acid in abetalipoproteinemia . the apolipoprotein b-100 ( apob-100 ) gene in leukocytes and the apob-100 messenger rna ( mrna ) and translated apolipoprotein in the livers from normal and abetalipoproteinemic individuals were evaluated . four complementary dna probes for apob-100 covering the 5 ' , middle , and 3 ' regions of the apob-100 mrna were utilized and southern blot analysis indicated that the apob-100 gene is present in abetalipoproteinemia without major insertions or deletions . polyadenylated hepatic apob-100 mrna from two abetalipoproteinemic patients was normal in size , and the concentration of apob-100 mrna was increased sixfold compared with control hepatic apob-100 mrna levels . apob-100 was detected in hepatocytes of abetalipoproteinemic patients by immunohistochemical techniques . these results indicate that the biochemical defect in abetalipoproteinemic patients studied is most consistent with a posttranslational defect in apob-100 processing or secretion with an up-regulation of the apob-100 mrna . 
identification of a new class of inducible receptors on platelets . thrombospondin interacts with platelets via a gpiib-iiia-independent mechanism . thrombospondin with fibrinogen , fibronectin , and von willebrand factor binds to platelets stimulated with agonists and support platelet adhesive functions . the receptors for the latter three proteins are associated with membrane glycoprotein gpiib-iiia . thrombasthenic platelets deficient in gpiib-iiia have been utilized to examine the role of this membrane protein in the interactions of thrombospondin with platelets . radioiodinated thrombospondin bound to thrombin-stimulated platelets from normal and thrombasthenic donors with a similar affinity and capacity . as monitored with a monoclonal antibody to thrombospondin , the divalent ion-dependent and -independent pathways for the expression of the endogenous pool of thrombospondin on the surface of thrombin-stimulated platelets from normal and thrombasthenic donors were also qualitatively and quantitatively similar . gpiib-iiia or ligands associated with gpiib-iiia thus are not essential for the binding of thrombospondin to platelets . therefore , thrombospondin interacts with unique receptors on platelets . 
plasma enzyme changes in carcinoma of bronchus mimicking myocardial infarction [ letter ] 
colorectal goblet cell sialomucin heterogeneity : its relation to malignant disease . mucus secreted by colorectal cancer differs in three respects from that produced normally : an overall reduction , a loss of o-acetyl substituents in sialic acid , and an increase in neutral mucin . similar changes have been reported in apparently normal mucosa bordering colorectal cancer . " normal " left sided colorectal mucosa from 32 patients with rectal cancer was studied . each case was matched by age and sex to a patient with diverticular disease and a patient with irritable bowel syndrome . twenty five patients with right sided cancer were matched to patients with crohn 's disease . sections were stained with mild periodic acid schiff ( mpas ) ( selectively stains n-acetyl sialic acid lacking in o-acetyl group ) and other closely related techniques . reactions were graded negative , weak , and intense . an intense reaction was found in 9 % of cases ; there was no difference between the various matched groups . phenylhydrazine interposition failed to block the mpas effect , indicating that a positive result was due to a deficiency of sialic acid with o-acetyl substituents rather than neutral mucin . different staining patterns in left and right colon were probably due to differing ratios of total sialic acid : fucose . these findings indicate a hitherto unsuspected colorectal goblet cell sialomucin heterogeneity within the general population , but no association with neoplastic disease is apparent . 
measuring s100 protein and neurone specific enolase in melanocytic tumours using video image analysis . using a computed video image analysis system , the staining intensity for both neurone specific enolase ( nse ) and s100 protein was measured in sections from 19 malignant melanomas and 16 benign melanocytic lesions . the results of this study confirm previous reports that nse and s100 protein are useful markers for malignant melanoma . nse staining intensity in the cases of malignant melanoma was significantly higher than that in benign naevi ( p = 0.011 ) . intensity of staining for s100 protein was not significantly higher in the malignant melanomas . there was , however , a significant s100 gradient when comparing superficial and deep intradermal portions of these tumours ( p = 0.003 ) . this feature was not seen in benign naevi . the greatest intensity of s100 protein staining was found in the deeper portions of the malignant melanomas . this gradient difference was not seen with staining for nse . although it seems that the overall intensity of staining for nse is more effective in differentiating between benign and malignant lesions , the difference in staining intensity between the superficial and deep portions of the tumour may be the better indicator of adverse behaviour in lesions in which the diagnosis of malignancy is uncertain . 
malignant eccrine poroma : report of three cases . the characteristic clinical and histological features of three cases of malignant eccrine poroma are discussed , in addition to the metastatic disease that had occurred in two cases . these cases were compared with previously reported cases of malignant eccrine poroma that had metastasised , and it is suggested that a strict classification of malignant eccrine sweat gland tumours should be made . 
plasma cell granuloma of the thyroid . a thyroid nodule comprised numerous polyclonal plasma cells inside cellular fibroblastic stroma , with residual thyroid tissue in the centre of the nodule . there was no associated paraproteinaemia . the residual thyroid tissue suggests that the exuberant granulation tissue in this case represents an unusual reaction to a colloid nodule . as far as we know , this is the first adequately documented case of the so called plasma cell granuloma of the thyroid . 
recognition of protein apparently specific to odontogenic keratocyst fluids . separate antisera were raised against keratocyst , dentigerous cyst , and radicular cyst fluids and used to analyse a range of fluids from cysts of known type . samples were subjected to crossed immunoelectrophoresis into homologous antiserum through an intermediate gel containing antibody to whole human serum to screen out serum derived components . a major antigen , designated x , which seems to be of epithelial origin but is not a keratin , was identified in keratocyst fluids . x resolves as two bands on sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis ( sds-page ) with molecular weights of 81 k and 89 k and its major antigenic epitope is associated with disulphide bonds . of the cysts studied to date , antigen x has been found consistently and exclusively in fluids from keratocysts ; its presence and detection is independent of total soluble protein concentration and thus offers real potential as a reliable marker for preoperative diagnosis . 
non-tropical pyomyositis . pyomyositis occurred in a man who had not been to the tropics . the condition is common in the tropics but most unusual in temperate climates and is nearly always caused by staphylococcus aureus . pyomyositis must be borne in mind in obscure cases of sepsis , as early recognition and treatment are essential to prevent a fatal outcome . 
antibody response to anaerobic coccoid rods in crohn 's disease . the igg and igm specific antibodies against a panel of 23 anaerobic gut bacteria were examined in crohn 's disease , ulcerative colitis , and healthy controls . four of the organisms , bifidobacterium bifidum , coprococcus comes ( me46 ) , coprococcus comes ( sp4 ) , and eubacterium limosum gave abnormal antibody titres in crohn 's disease compared with those of controls . in crohn 's disease specific igg antibodies to three of the organisms were low and the igm antibodies were higher than those of controls . igm antibodies were also raised in ulcerative colitis . antigenic cross reactivity could be shown between some of these organisms . the possible clinical importance of these abnormal antibody responses to specific organisms is unexplained . 
immune haemolytic anaemia and nomifensine treatment in north west england 1984-85 : report of six cases . nomifensine , an antidepressant used for eight years in britain , was particularly popular in the north west of england . haemolytic anaemia was recognised as a rare side effect , but in 1984 a cluster of six cases was referred to the north west regional transfusion centre , reflecting an incidence of 0.006 % . these were collected within 18 months and showed variable serological features , indicating that antibodies associated with nomifensine treatment are neither rare nor of one particular type . the accumulation of this and similar data contributed to its withdrawal from the british market in january , 1986. 
new micro method for deoxyuridine suppression test . 
use of high speed centrifugation in early detection of bacteraemia . 
enteric coronavirus in symptomless homosexuals [ letter ] 
hepatitis a : a kupffer cell disease ? [ letter ] 
accessory cells as primary target of human immunodeficiency virus hiv infection [ letter ] 
diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction at necropsy [ letter ] 
reduced dose of bleomycin in the treatment of recalcitrant warts . the effectiveness of intralesional bleomycin ( 1 u / ml ) in the treatment of warts refractory to conventional methods of treatment has been shown in well-controlled studies . we have now evaluated more dilute concentrations of bleomycin in the treatment of recalcitrant warts . warts were assigned for therapy with intralesional bleomycin at a concentration of 0.25 u / ml , 0.5 u / ml , or 1 u / ml at 3-week intervals . if warts persisted after three injections or had recurred by 3 months ' follow-up , treatment was considered a failure . twenty-six patients whose warts had persisted after conventional treatment entered the study . three patients had spontaneous regression of untreated warts during therapy and were not included in the results . of seventy-nine warts treated with intralesional bleomycin , sixty-two ( 78 % ) were cured after one to three injections . responding warts showed a hemorrhagic eschar even with the lower bleomycin concentrations and healed without complication . almost all treated warts responded , although not all were cured . treatment with bleomycin at 0.5 u / ml was as effective as treatment with 1 u / ml . bleomycin at 0.25 u / ml is effective therapy but not enough warts were treated to permit a conclusion when compared with higher concentrations . 
skin care for the elderly [ letter ] 
facial involvement in pruritic urticarial papules and plaques of pregnancy [ letter ] 
contact hypopigmentation from electrocardiograph electrodes [ letter ] 
granuloma annulare arising after herpes zoster [ letter ] 
coexistent systemic lupus erythematosus and urate deposition [ letter ] 
malignant pyoderma : a manifestation of wegener 's granulomatosis ? [ letter ] 
atopic dermatitis : papaverine therapy versus the scholtz regimen [ letter ] 
contribution of topical tar oil to ultraviolet b phototherapy for psoriasis [ letter ] 
allergic contact stomatitis to a dental impression material [ letter ] 
severe chronic photosensitivity in association with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [ letter ] 
the potential role of common dermatologic practice technics in transmitting disease [ letter ] 
crusted scabies in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [ letter ] 
treatment of early latent syphilis under 1 year 's duration : serologic response to treatment of 368 patients . 
possible mechanisms of effectiveness of dead sea balneotherapy [ letter ] 
ulcerative and hypopigmented sarcoidosis . 
green hair : guidelines for diagnosis and therapy . 
cryosurgery of basal cell carcinoma . cryosurgery is now a widely accepted modality for the treatment of basal cell carcinomas . this article presents a practical approach to using cryosurgery for this purpose in the dermatologist 's office . understanding the cryobiologic basis of cryosurgery is a prerequisite . aspects of treatment covered include selection and use of appropriate equipment , indications and contraindications for specific tumors , preoperative preparation , various treatment technics with clinical and instrumental depth-dose monitoring , postoperative care , cure rate , and cosmetic and functional end results . the overall results obtained by cryosurgery compare favorably with those obtained by other modalities . cryosurgery is the treatment of choice for some basal cell carcinomas and a satisfactory alternate treatment for others . 
microsporum nanum infection in hog farmers . microsporum nanum is a dermatophyte that can cause disease in both man and animals and is most frequently associated with ringworm infection in pigs . human infections are rare in the literature . three new cases of human m . nanum infection are reported here . two patients had inflammatory tinea faciei and one had tinea cruris . the patients were successfully treated with clotrimazole or miconazole cream , sometimes combined with griseofulvin . all three patients were hog farmers and lived in the same small rural area . occupational exposure is suggested as the cause of infection . 
the diagnosis and treatment of chancroid . chancroid , a disappearing disease in the united states , was reintroduced into the country in 1980 by immigrants from the caribbean , mexico , and southeast asia . point epidemics resulted , each of them associated with prostitution . during the 4-month period between march 1 to june 30 , 1985 , forty-five patients were diagnosed and treated in massachusetts , thirty-seven from boston alone . by means of these case records , the morphologic characteristics , laboratory diagnosis , and treatment regimens are described . 
anthralin stain removal . results of an anthralin stain removal study on white 65 % polyester / 35 % cotton , white 100 % polyester , white 100 % cotton , a white shower curtain , white tile with crevice , and white ceramic shower tile are reported . an optimum stain removal technic was developed by using a 10-minute soak in full-strength chlorine bleach ( good measure or clorox ) followed by a water rinse and air drying . this technic completely removed all stains of 24-hour duration from the test fabrics . the stain removal test on shower curtains , floor tiles , and ceramic shower tiles was also discussed . 
the nails in adult type 1 pityriasis rubra pilaris . a comparison with sezary syndrome and psoriasis [ see comments ] the fingernails of twenty-four patients with classical adult ( type 1 ) pityriasis rubra pilaris were examined for changes in nail morphology and a comparison was made with the fingernail morphology of twenty-seven consecutive psoriatic patients with nail changes . distal yellow-brown discoloration , subungual hyperkeratosis , nail plate thickening , and splinter hemorrhages indicate a diagnosis of type 1 pityriasis rubra pilaris rather than psoriasis , while onycholysis ( particularly marginal ) , salmon patches , small pits , and larger indentations of the nail plate indicate a diagnosis of psoriasis . histology demonstrated that a nail biopsy would be a useful diagnostic procedure if nails were involved in isolation but provided no additional diagnostic features to those found from biopsy specimens of involved skin in the two conditions . the similarity in nail morphology between the type 1 pityriasis rubra pilaris patients and five patients with chronic erythroderma resulting from sezary syndrome indicated that these changes may represent a nonspecific reaction pattern that may result from prolonged erythema of the proximal nail bed and matrix . the rough nails ( trachyonychia ) described in advanced sezary syndrome were not observed in any of our patients . 
nonmelanoma skin tumors in long-term photochemotherapy treatment of psoriasis . an 8-year follow-up study . two hundred ninety-seven long-term photochemotherapy ( puva ) -treated patients from an original cohort of 418 subjects reported in 1980 were reevaluated in a second follow-up in order to determine the risk of tumor development under long-term puva . within an observation period of up to 8 years ( mean , 63.1 months ) six patients with squamous cell carcinomas and three with basal cell carcinomas were observed . eight of the nine tumor patients had been exposed to potential carcinogens such as arsenic and / or ionizing radiation prior to puva treatment . five with squamous cell carcinomas were skin type i or ii ; in four of the six patients with squamous cell carcinomas the tumors were located on unexposed skin areas . the mean cumulative ultraviolet a ( uva ) dose in three of the six squamous cell carcinoma patients was three times as high as that in the group of nontumor patients . the other three squamous cell carcinoma patients had lower mean doses than nontumor patients , as did the three patients with basal cell carcinomas . although the cumulative uva dose may eventually turn out to be relevant for puva carcinogenesis , our present data do not sufficiently substantiate a correlation between cumulative uva dose and squamous cell carcinoma formation in puva-treated patients . this report confirms that previous exposure to carcinogens appears to be the most important factor for nonmelanoma skin tumor formation in long-term puva patients . 
correlation between vitiligo antibodies and extent of depigmentation in vitiligo . we correlated the level of vitiligo antibodies to the extent of depigmentation in thirty-two patients with vitiligo . vitiligo antibodies were assayed by protein a-sepharose immunoprecipitation method . antibodies were present in four of eight ( 50 % ) patients with minimal vitiligo ( less than 2 % body surface involved ) , in nine of ten ( 90 % ) patients with moderate vitiligo ( 2 to 5 % surface involved ) , and in thirteen of fourteen ( 93 % ) patients with more extensive disease ( greater than 5 % surface involved ) . the level of vitiligo antibodies in the three groups expressed as a binding index was 2.9 % + / - 2.03 , 5.6 % + / - 2.92 , and 8.0 % + / - 3.03 sd , respectively . these results suggest that there is a relation between the incidence and level of vitiligo antibodies and the extent of depigmentation in vitiligo . 
medium-depth chemical peeling : digging beneath the surface [ editorial ] 
where 's the spot ? 
malignant blue nevus [ letter ] 
laser therapy of bowenoid papulosis and bowen 's disease . six patients with bowenoid papulosis and two patients with bowen 's disease of the genital area were treated by means of an argon , nd : yag , and co2 laser . in all of the patients , complete resolution of the lesions was achieved . due to a superficial coagulating effect , application of the argon laser should be restricted to macular and papular pigmented lesions . in contrast , nd : yag and co2 lasers could be used even for treatment of extensive leukoplakia-like and verrucous lesions . advantages and disadvantages of these two lasers are discussed . 
learning the basics # 4 : cryosurgical treatment of warts . 
tumor conference # 59. non-nevocytic congenital nevus [ clinical conference ] 
medium-depth chemical peeling of the skin : a variation of superficial chemosurgery . medium-depth chemical peeling of the skin is an intermediate procedure between superficial trichloroacetic acid application and deep phenolic cauterant application . combining solid carbon dioxide with trichloroacetic acid promotes both epidermal and dermal regeneration . the technique for treatment of actinic degeneration , acne scarring , rhytids , and pigmentary aberrations is presented . 
technetium antimony sulfur colloid scintiscan in selective lymph node dissection for malignant melanoma . lymphoscintigraphy with technetium antimony sulfur colloid ( tasc ) was used in four patients with malignant melanoma to identify the pattern of lymphatic drainage , allowing selective lymph node dissection . tasc is safe and predictive of lymph node drainage patterns . using this technique allows visualization of multiple tiers of lymph nodes in 2 to 6 hours . 
malignant melanoma and squamous cell carcinoma in a patient treated for severe pustular psoriasis . a case of cutaneous malignant melanoma and squamous cell carcinoma arising in psoriatic plaques of a patient with severe , pustular psoriasis is presented . the possible role of therapy in the development , growth , and spread of cutaneous malignancy in this patient and in other reported treated psoriatic patients is reviewed . 
the rationale of using the rhomboid fasciocutaneous transposition flap for the radical cure of pilonidal sinus . a simple , safe technique for complete excision of pilonidal pathology and immediate fasciocutaneous rhomboid flap closure is presented . twenty-five patients were treated . all wounds healed by first intention , with no patient remaining in the hospital for more than 10 days . earlier cases were followed up for 2 years . no recurrence has yet been encountered . 
metastatic basal cell carcinoma originating in the supra-parotid region . this case illustrates that massive tumor size , ulceration , or history of multiple recurrences are not absolute prerequisites for metastatic bcc . it supports the hypothesis that tumor proximity to major lymphatic systems or large-caliber blood vessels may be of significance . bccs originating in skin overlying the parotid gland have the potential to penetrate to a rich vascular and lymphatic plexus as well as compromise the integrity of the facial nerve . early treatment of these neoplasms utilizing accurate methods of microscopic control appears warranted to prevent the serious consequences of recurrences and deep tissue involvement . 
chronic paronychia caused by dual toenails [ letter ] 
fifteen year mortality in coronary drug project patients : long-term benefit with niacin . the coronary drug project was conducted between 1966 and 1975 to assess the long-term efficacy and safety of five lipid-influencing drugs in 8 , 341 men aged 30 to 64 years with electrocardiogram-documented previous myocardial infarction . the two estrogen regimens and dextrothyroxine were discontinued early because of adverse effects . no evidence of efficacy was found for the clofibrate treatment . niacin treatment showed modest benefit in decreasing definite nonfatal recurrent myocardial infarction but did not decrease total mortality . with a mean follow-up of 15 years , nearly 9 years after termination of the trial , mortality from all causes in each of the drug groups , except for niacin , was similar to that in the placebo group . mortality in the niacin group was 11 % lower than in the placebo group ( 52.0 versus 58.2 % ; p = 0.0004 ) . this late benefit of niacin , occurring after discontinuation of the drug , may be a result of a translation into a mortality benefit over subsequent years of the early favorable effect of niacin in decreasing nonfatal reinfarction or a result of the cholesterol-lowering effect of niacin , or both . 
determinants of left ventricular aneurysm formation after anterior myocardial infarction : a clinical and angiographic study . to determine factors involved in left ventricular aneurysm formation after transmural anterior myocardial infarction , 79 patients with a first myocardial infarction who underwent cardiac catheterization within 6 months of infarction were evaluated . patients who had received thrombolytic therapy were excluded . patients were divided into four groups depending on the status of the left anterior descending artery and the presence or absence of a left ventricular aneurysm : group i ( n = 25 ) : aneurysm with occluded left anterior descending artery ; group ii ( n = 27 ) : no aneurysm and occluded left anterior descending artery ; group iii ( n = 23 ) : no aneurysm and patent left anterior descending artery ; and group iv ( n = 4 ) : aneurysm with patent left anterior descending artery . single vessel disease was more common in group i ( aneurysm ) compared with groups ii and iii ( no aneurysm ) ( chi 2 ( 4 ) = 12.8 ; probability value equal to 0.012 ) . collateral blood supply in the presence of an occluded left anterior descending artery was significantly less in group i ( aneurysm ) compared with group ii ( no aneurysm ) ( 0.9 versus 2.4 , p less than 0.001 ) . the extent of coronary artery disease and collateral blood supply in groups i and ii were directly related ( p = 0.012 ) . neither age , sex nor risk factors for coronary disease correlated with aneurysm formation . at a mean follow-up of 48 months , no differences were observed in the incidence of recurrent angina , new myocardial infarction , embolic events or sudden death . more patients in group ii underwent coronary artery bypass surgery . total occlusion of the left anterior descending artery in association with inherent poor collateral blood supply is a significant determinant of aneurysm formation after anterior myocardial infarction . multivessel disease with either good collateral circulation or a patent left anterior descending artery is uncommonly associated with the development of left ventricular aneurysm . 
coronary vasodilation by nitrates is not mediated by the prostaglandin system : a quantitative cineangiographic study . the possible role of prostaglandins in mediating large coronary artery vasodilation by nitrates was investigated by quantitative magnification coronary angiography . the effects of aspirin ( 1 g systemically and 100 mg intracoronary ) in preventing large coronary artery vasodilation induced by intracoronary isosorbide dinitrate was investigated in 16 patients . of these , 5 received 0.3 mg ( group 1a ) and 11 received 3 mg ( group 1b ) intracoronary isosorbide dinitrate , before and 15 minutes after aspirin . relative to control , 0.3 mg isosorbide dinitrate induced a 19 + / - 9 % ( mean + / - sd ) ( p less than 0.01 ) and 19.5 + / - 11 % ( p less than 0.01 ) increase in coronary diameter before and after aspirin , respectively ( p = ns ) . changes after 3 mg isosorbide were 23 + / - 12 % ( p less than 0.01 ) and 26.5 + / - 14 % ( p less than 0.01 ) , respectively , before and after aspirin ( p = ns ) . in 10 additional patients ( group 2 ) , the effect of the same dose of aspirin on rest coronary artery tone was assessed : changes relative to control were 0.9 + / - 5.5 % ( p = ns ) minutes after aspirin . the intracoronary administration of 3 mg isosorbide dinitrate produced a 24.7 + / - 11 % increase in coronary diameter ( p = ns versus pre- and postaspirin isosorbide in group 1b ) . urinary 6-ketoprostaglandin-f1 alpha values in urine samples collected in the 8 hours before and the 8 hours after the study in five patients in group 1b and five patients of group 2 , revealed a 36 + / - 14 % ( mean + / - sd ) reduction in excretion of prostacyclin ( p less than 0.01 ) . these data rule out a role for prostaglandins both in mediating dilation of large coronary arteries by nitrates and in affecting their vascular tone at rest . 
effect of nifedipine on recurrent stenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . this double-blind , randomized study evaluated the effect of nifedipine on restenosis after coronary angioplasty . two hundred forty-one patients with dilation of 271 coronary sites were randomized at the time of hospital discharge to receive nifedipine , 10 mg ( 123 patients ) , or placebo ( 118 patients ) four times daily for 6 months . no patient was known to have coronary artery spasm . the mean duration of therapy was 4.4 + / - 2 ( mean + / - sd ) months for nifedipine and 4.3 + / - 2 months for placebo . a restudy angiogram was available in 100 patients ( 81 % ) in the nifedipine group and 98 patients ( 83 % ) in the placebo group . a recurrent coronary stenosis was noted in 28 % of patients in the nifedipine group and in 29.5 % of those in the placebo group ( p = ns ) . the mean diameter stenosis was 36.4 + / - 23 % for the nifedipine group and 36.7 + / - 23 % for the placebo group ( p = ns ) . by pill count , 78 % of patients receiving nifedipine and 82 % of those receiving placebo complied with the study drug regimen . coronary stenosis recurred in 33 % of patients in the placebo group and in 29 % of patients in the nifedipine group who complied with the regimen and had angiograms ( p = ns ) . in conclusion , the study did not demonstrate a significant beneficial effect of nifedipine on the incidence of recurrent stenosis after successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . 
coronary angioplasty and the persistent problem of restenosis [ editorial ] 
significance of timing programmed electrical stimulation after acute myocardial infarction . to assess the influence of time on the inducibility by programmed electrical stimulation of ventricular arrhythmias after acute myocardial infarction , 18 patients were studied on day 5 and day 24 after infarction with a stimulation protocol employing a maximum of three right ventricular extrastimuli during sinus rhythm and at three paced cycle lengths . all patients were without documented sustained ventricular arrhythmia ( sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation ) before the investigation . sustained ventricular arrhythmia was induced in two patients on day 5 , but in nine on day 24 after infarction . this difference in incidence was statistically significant ( p less than 0.05 ) , as was the change in the distribution ratio of induced sustained ventricular arrhythmia from day 5 to day 24 ( p less than 0.05 ) . the types of arrhythmia induced on day 24 were sustained ventricular tachycardia with a mean cycle length of 207 ms in six cases ( five monomorphic , one polymorphic ) , and ventricular fibrillation in three cases . these nine patients did not differ from the remaining nine patients in maximal serum creatine kinase , infarct site , number of stenosed coronary arteries , global left ventricular ejection fraction ( 47 + / - 7 % versus 46 + / - 10 % ) and results of 24 hour ambulatory electrocardiographic ( holter ) monitoring , but they had a significantly shorter right ventricular effective refractory period ( 223 + / - 10 ms versus 259 + / - 28 ms ; p less than 0.05 ) . during the follow-up period of 24 + / -5 months no patient died , had syncopal attacks or developed spontaneous episodes of sustained ventricular arrhythmia . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
intraoperative measurement of pericardial constraint : role in ventricular diastolic mechanics . the pressure of pericardial constraint was measured in 20 patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery ( 10 in group i with normal cardiac size ; 10 in group ii with cardiomegaly ) using a catheter with a collapsible latex end balloon . right atrial pressure and other hemodynamic variables including right ventricular stroke work index were also measured before and after the pericardium was widely opened . the pericardium was grossly normal in all patients and only small physiologic effusions were present . in group i mean pericardial pressure was 8 + / - 2 mm hg as was mean right atrial pressure . in group ii mean pericardial pressure was 6 + / - 2 mm hg versus mean right atrial pressure of 10 + / - 5 mm hg ( p less than 0.05 ) . excluding 2 of the 20 patients with outlying data , pericardial pressure showed linear correlation with right atrial pressure ( r = 0.689 ) . in group i right ventricular stroke work index rose from 5.0 + / - 2.0 to 6.4 + / - 2.1 g-m / m2 ( p less than 0.01 ) after pericardiotomy with no significant increase in mean right atrial pressure ; similar findings in group ii were consistent with removal of external constraint . thus , even in the absence of an abnormal effusion the normal pericardium exerts a significant pressure on the heart , which is often similar in magnitude to right atrial pressure . in certain notable exceptions , however , right atrial pressure far exceeds pericardial pressure . such pericardial constraint has important implications for ventricular diastolic mechanics . 
doppler echocardiographic assessment of impaired left ventricular filling in patients with right ventricular pressure overload due to primary pulmonary hypertension . in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension , competition between the right and left ventricles for the limited pericardial space results in distortion of left ventricular geometry reflected in displacement of the ventricular septum toward the left ventricular cavity . left ventricular shape is most dramatically deranged at end-systole and early diastole , suggesting the possibility that the distribution of left ventricular diastolic filling might be altered . to investigate this hypothesis , nine patients with primary pulmonary hypertension and nine normal individuals were studied with echocardiographic techniques . left ventricular isovolumic relaxation time was significantly prolonged in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension by comparison with normal individuals ( 129 + / - 36 versus 53 + / - 9 ms , p less than 0.005 ) and the fraction of the transmitral flow velocity integral occurring in the first half of diastole was significantly less than in normal individuals ( 38 + / - 14 % versus 70 + / - 9 % , p less than 0.005 ) . measurement of fractional changes in short-axis left ventricular cavity area similarly demonstrated that in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension fractional early diastolic cavity expansion ( 32 + / - 11 % ) was significantly less than in normal individuals ( 78 + / - 9 % , p less than 0.005 ) . in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension , the ventricular septum was abnormally flattened toward the left ventricular cavity at end-systole ( normalized septal curvature 0.04 + / - 0.19 ) and remained that way throughout early diastolic filling but returned toward normal at end-diastole ( normalized septal curvature 0.68 + / - 0.19 , p less than 0.005 ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
progression of coronary atherosclerotic disease assessed by cinevideodensitometry : relation to clinical risk factors . progression of coronary artery stenosis was measured using a quantitative , computer-assisted cinevideodensitometric method in 144 arterial segments in 44 subjects undergoing coronary arteriography on two separate occasions at least 6 months apart . projected coronary arteriograms were digitized into 512 x 512 pixel mode and percent stenosis was calculated by comparing background-corrected videodensitometric values over stenotic and normal segments . subjects underwent repeat coronary arteriography because of worsening symptoms of angina or heart failure ; subjects with renal failure , coronary artery bypass grafts or cardiac transplant were excluded . clinical variables determined at the time of the first arteriogram included age , sex , serum cholesterol , systolic blood pressure and presence or absence of cigarette smoking , diabetes mellitus and left ventricular hypertrophy . the mean interval between arteriograms was 29.3 months . overall progression of coronary stenosis was observed in 40 of the 44 subjects ; the mean progression at 24 months was 39 % ( 90 % confidence interval , 33 to 45 % ) and at 36 months was 48 % ( 40 to 56 % ) . the degree of overall progression was related to the length of time between arteriograms ( f = 5.81 , p less than 0.05 ) and to serum cholesterol level ( f = 4.37 , p less than 0.05 ) . these data indicate that using an accurate , quantitative method , it is possible to measure progression of coronary artery atherosclerosis within 2 to 3 years of the initial arteriogram . serum cholesterol appears to be an important determinant of disease progression . 
quantitative evaluation of aortic insufficiency by continuous wave doppler echocardiography . to assess the usefulness of continuous wave doppler echocardiography in the evaluation of aortic insufficiency , the aortic regurgitant flow velocity pattern obtained with continuous wave doppler examination was compared with the results of aortography and conventional pulsed doppler techniques in 25 individuals with aortic insufficiency . the diastolic deceleration slope as measured from the continuous wave tracing was significantly different among subgroups of patients with mild ( 1.6 + / - 0.5 m / s2 ) , moderate ( 2.7 + / - 0.5 m / s2 ) and severe ( 4.7 + / - 1.5 m / s2 ) aortic insufficiency as determined from aortography . deceleration slopes greater than 2 m / s2 separated individuals with moderate and severe insufficiency from those with mild insufficiency . similar findings were seen when comparing the pressure half-time method of diastolic velocity decay with the more severe grades of aortic insufficiency exhibiting the shortest pressure half-times . there was also a high correlation ( r = 0.85 ) between the deceleration slope measured by continuous wave doppler recordings and the grade of insufficiency as assessed by pulsed doppler echocardiography . end-diastolic velocities correlated poorly ( r = 0.28 ) with catheter-measured end-diastolic pressure difference between the aorta and the left ventricle . these findings demonstrate that the aortic regurgitant flow pattern by continuous wave doppler echocardiography may be useful in quantitating the degree of aortic insufficiency by assessing the rate with which aortic and left ventricular pressures equilibrate during diastole . 
assessment of left ventricular diastolic function : comparison of doppler echocardiography and gated blood pool scintigraphy [ published erratum appears in j am coll cardiol 1987 may ; 9 ( 5 ) : 1199 ] although left ventricular diastolic filling patterns can be examined by both doppler velocity recordings and gated blood pool scintigraphy , few data exist regarding a comparison of these techniques . therefore , doppler echocardiography and scintigraphy were compared in 25 patients . pulsed doppler echocardiography was performed using an apical four chamber view with the sample volume at the level of the mitral anulus . doppler measurements included peak velocity of the early diastolic filling wave , time to peak early diastolic velocity from both end-systole and end-diastole , diastolic time period and diastolic integrated velocity ( early , atrial and total ) . the cross-sectional area of the mitral anulus and the left ventricular end-diastolic volume were estimated from measurements made on the apical four chamber view . scintigraphic measurements included normalized peak filling rate , time to normalized filling rate from both end-diastole and end-systole , diastolic time period and relative diastolic filling during early and atrial filling . doppler echocardiography and scintigraphy compared favorably in assessment of fractional filling during early diastole ( r = 0.84 ) and atrial systole ( r = 0.85 ) , ratio of early to atrial filling ( r = 0.83 ) , diastolic filling period ( r = 0.94 ) and interval from end-diastole to peak early diastolic flow ( r = 0.88 ) . normalized peak filling rate and time to normalized peak filling rate from end-systole did not correlate closely by these two techniques . the differences in normalized peak filling rate may be explained by difficulties in estimating mitral anulus cross-sectional area and left ventricular end-diastolic volume . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
mechanism of prevention of sudden death by nadolol : differential actions on arrhythmia triggers and substrate after myocardial infarction in the dog . electrocardiographic monitoring and provocative ventricular pacing were used to evaluate control and nadolol treatment groups 6 to 24 hours after left anterior descending coronary artery ligation in the dog . during the 6 to 24 hour period , the control group ( n = 20 ) developed ventricular triplets at rates exceeding 270 / min . seven dogs spontaneously developed sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( 421 + / - 12 beats / min ) at 13 + / - 2 hours . sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia was present for 38 + / - 8 seconds before ventricular fibrillation developed . one dog developed recurrent monomorphic ventricular tachycardia , with six episodes lasting from 8 to 72 seconds ( 375 to 425 beats / min ) . at 24 hours , ventricular pacing produced sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( 378 + / - 12 beats / min ) in 9 of 13 surviving animals . nadolol administration 6 hours after coronary artery ligation ( n = 19 ) lowered both the rate ( 241 + / - 8 versus 328 + / - 8 beats / min ; p = 0.001 ) and the incidence ( 8 + / - 6 versus 198 + / - 61 per hour ; p = 0.004 ) of rapid ventricular triplets and prevented sudden arrhythmic death ( 0 % ; p = 0.005 ) . nadolol failed to prevent sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( 88 % ; 365 + / - 12 beats / min ) produced by ventricular pacing . the data suggest that nadolol prevents spontaneous sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia by selectively suppressing the arrhythmia trigger ( rapid ventricular triplets ) without altering the underlying arrhythmia substrate . 
mechanism of cardiac arrhythmias induced by epinephrine in dogs with hypokalemia . to investigate the mechanism of ventricular arrhythmias induced by epinephrine in dogs with hypokalemia , 30 adult mongrel dogs were separated into a control group ( n = 13 ) and a hypokalemia group ( n = 17 ) . in the hypokalemia group , sodium polystyrene sulfonate ( 5 g / kg body weight ) was infused into the colon . in both groups , the serum concentrations of sodium , potassium and calcium were measured every 15 minutes for 60 minutes . the mean ( + / - standard deviation ) serum potassium level of the hypokalemia group decreased significantly from 3.81 + / - 0.21 to 2.92 + / - 0.36 meq / liter ; there were no significant changes in other electrolytes . after 60 minutes , epinephrine ( 10 micrograms / kg ) was injected intravenously in the hypokalemia and control groups , and the arrhythmia ratio ( the number of ventricular ectopic beats divided by the total heart rate ) was calculated for 5 minutes . each group was further classified into subgroups of dogs with an arrhythmia ratio higher or lower than 10 % . an arrhythmia ratio over 10 % was observed in 7.7 % of the control group and 53 % of the hypokalemia group . immediately after 5 minutes of epinephrine injection , myocardial mitochondria and plasma membrane fraction were prepared from each group . mitochondrial calcium content and phospholipase activity of plasma membrane fraction were determined . significant increases in both mitochondrial calcium content and phospholipase activity were observed in the dogs with hypokalemia and an arrhythmia ratio greater than 10 % . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
deep arterial injury during experimental angioplasty : relation to a positive indium-111-labeled platelet scintigram , quantitative platelet deposition and mural thrombosis . although it is not clear why coronary occlusion and restenosis occur after successful coronary angioplasty , factors related to the procedure may influence early and late results . the possible adverse effects of a medial tear documented histologically and produced during balloon angioplasty of the common carotid arteries were studied in 30 fully heparinized ( 100 u / kg body weight ) normal pigs . scanning electron microscopy showed endothelial denudation and extensive platelet deposition in all dilated arterial segments . visible macroscopic mural thrombus was present within an hour of the procedure in 29 ( 91 % ) of the 32 arteries that had a medial tear documented by histologic study ; the tear produced an indium-111-labeled platelet deposition of 116.4 + / - 26.5 x 10 ( 6 ) / cm2 ( mean + / - se ) and total thrombotic occlusion in 2 arteries ( 4 % ) . none of the 24 arteries without a medial tear had a thrombus , and the mean platelet deposition in that group was 7.0 + / - 0.5 x 10 ( 6 ) / cm2 ( p less than 0.0008 ) . in 12 pigs scanned with a gamma camera , visible thrombus was associated with platelet deposition in excess of 20 x 10 ( 6 ) / cm2 in 12 arteries , 9 of which had a positive indium-111-labeled platelet scintigram . thus , arterial angioplasty causes deep arterial injury , which appears to be a major cause of mural thrombosis , heavy platelet deposition , a positive indium-111-labeled platelet scintigram and acute arterial occlusion . a positive indium-111-labeled platelet scintigram was always associated with macroscopic thrombus of at least 20 > 10 ( 6 ) platelets / cm2 and underlying deep arterial injury . 
uptake of hematoporphyrin derivative by atheromatous plaques : studies in human in vitro and rabbit in vivo . hematoporphyrin derivative , a photosensitive material used to identify and treat neoplastic tissue in humans , has been found to localize in atheromatous plaques in animals and has recently been found in postmortem human atherosclerotic plaques . it is not known whether human plaques take up hematoporphyrin derivative in vivo . in five patients undergoing surgical vascular procedures , specimens containing atheromatous plaques were removed and immediately incubated in autologous oxygenated blood at 37 degrees c with hematoporphyrin derivative at a clinically relevant concentration for 2 hours . on exposure to ultraviolet light , porphyrin fluorescence was noted throughout each plaque , whereas adjacent plaque-free tissue showed no fluorescence . to compare in vitro with in vivo hematoporphyrin derivative uptake by plaques , the fluorescence of three types of arterial lesions ( induced by a high cholesterol diet , catheters or balloon injury ) was studied in 16 new zealand white rabbits . each lesion fluoresced selectively with the same intensity whether hematoporphyrin derivative exposure was performed in vitro or in vivo . fluorescence microscopy did not show a difference in the pattern of hematoporphyrin derivative fluorescence between in vitro and in vivo specimens . the results suggest that human atheromatous plaques should take up hematoporphyrin derivative in vivo and are , therefore , potentially suitable for photochemical treatment as a new therapeutic approach to atherosclerosis . 
double and triple sequential shocks reduce ventricular defibrillation threshold in dogs with and without myocardial infarction . the role of optimal placement of electrodes and mode of shock delivery from a defibrillator was examined in dogs with and without myocardial infarction . single , double and triple truncated exponential shocks separated by 1 ms were delivered through various electrode combinations and cardiac vectors after electrical induction of ventricular fibrillation . a single shock through a pathway not incorporating the interventricular septum ( catheter electrodes or epicardial patches between anterior and posterior left ventricle ) required the highest total energy ( 22.6 and greater than 26.4 j , respectively ) and peak voltage ( 1 , 004 and greater than 1 , 094 v , respectively ) to terminate ventricular fibrillation . a single shock through a pathway including the interventricular septum required lower total energy and peak voltage to defibrillate . combinations of two sequential shocks between an intracardiac catheter electrode and anterior left ventricular epicardial patch , between the catheter electrode and subcutaneous extrathoracic plate and between three ventricular epicardial patches all significantly reduced total energy ( 7.7 , 8.7 and 7.8 j , respectively ) and peak voltage ( 424 , 436 and 424 v , respectively ) needed to defibrillate . three sequential shocks exerted no significant additional reduction in total energy of the defibrillation threshold than did two sequential shocks . infarcted canine heart required less peak voltage but not total energy to terminate ventricular fibrillation than did noninfarcted heart . therefore , two sequential shocks over different pathways reduce both total energy and peak voltage required to terminate ventricular fibrillation . 
long-term outcome after repair of coarctation in infancy : subclavian angioplasty does not reduce the need for reoperation . to assess the influence of surgical technique on the need for reoperation after coarctation repair in infancy , follow-up data were analyzed for 125 consecutive infants ( less than 12 months ) who underwent repair of coarctation of the aorta by subclavian angioplasty or resection and end to end anastomosis . sixty-three infants underwent coarctation repair by resection between 1960 and 1980 , and 62 underwent subclavian angioplasty between 1977 and 1985. the mean age ( + / - sem ) at operation for infants with subclavian flap angioplasty was 1.54 + / - 0.93 months and for infants with resection was 2.70 + / - 0.93 months ( p = 0.02 ) . there was no difference between the groups in patient weight at initial repair or the proportion of patients with complex anatomy or aortic arch hypoplasia . follow-up duration for the subclavian flap group was 2.55 + / - 0.51 years ( range 0.3 to 8.2 ) , and for the resection group was 7.97 + / - 3.61 years ( range 0.6 to 21 ) . indication for reoperation was the presence of a coarctation gradient at rest of 40 mm hg or greater and arm hypertension . reoperation was required in 5 patients in the subclavian flap group and 12 patients in the resection group . the mean reoperation rate after subclavian flap repair was 0.0356 reoperations per patient-year , and after resection was 0.0342 reoperations per patient-year ( p = 0.94 ) . to determine an individual 's risk of requiring reoperation from these group measures , a reoperation risk model was developed . the risk of reoperation by the fifth postoperative year was found to be 16.3 % after subclavian flap repair and 15.7 % after resection . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
the case for subclavian flap repair [ editorial ] 
pulsed doppler echocardiography in the preoperative evaluation of total anomalous pulmonary venous connection . pulmonary venous flow was evaluated by pulsed doppler echocardiography in 38 patients with total anomalous pulmonary venous connection . twenty-nine of these 38 had no associated intracardiac anomaly ( group i ) , and 9 had complex intracardiac anatomy associated with low pulmonary blood flow ( group ii ) . in group i the drainage was infracardiac in nine , supracardiac in seven , intracardiac in eight and mixed in five . in both groups , in those with venous obstruction the flow in the individual pulmonary veins and ascending or descending vein was nonphasic , varying only with respiration . flow in the absence of obstruction was phasic , varying with the cardiac cycle . distal to a site of obstruction the flow was nonlaminar and of high velocity irrespective of the amount of pulmonary blood flow . the pulsed doppler technique provides important physiologic information in the patient with total anomalous pulmonary venous connection before surgical intervention . 
cardiac septation in atrioventricular canal defect . to determine the relative contributions of the atrial and ventricular septa to total cardiac septation in patients with atrioventricular ( av ) canal defect , two-dimensional echocardiography was used to measure the length of each portion of the septum in 14 patients with partial av canal and 13 patients with the complete form of this lesion . results were compared with similar data from 30 normal children , 10 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and 11 patients with ostium secundum atrial septal defect . in patients with partial av canal , the portion of total cardiac length occupied by the atrial septum did not differ from normal ( 24.8 + / - 9.9 % versus 28.7 + / - 7.9 % , p greater than 0.05 ) , but there was a deficiency of both av and ventricular septal tissue , the latter occupying only 48.2 + / - 7.0 % of total cardiac length ( versus 57.9 + / - 4.1 % in normal subjects , p less than 0.05 ) . similarly , patients with complete av canal had a normal amount of atrial septal tissue , a deficiency of av septal tissue and a deficiency of ventricular septal tissue which was even greater than that of patients with a partial defect ( 39.4 + / - 5.0 % versus 48.2 + / - 7.0 % , p less than 0.05 ) . thus , although partial av canal defect is often called ostium primum atrial septal defect , the amount of atrial tissue is usually normal , the defect being formed by a deficiency of av and ventricular septal tissue . in the complete form of the lesion , the deficiency of ventricular septal tissue is greater . 
fetal ventricular pacing for hydrops secondary to complete atrioventricular block . the advent of ultrasound recording has expanded the capabilities for treatment of the fetus in utero . the diagnosis of specific disease processes has allowed for prenatal intervention by new techniques designed to improve fetal survival . the application of ventricular pacing in a hydropic fetus with complete atrioventricular ( av ) block is reported . complete av block resulted from maternal collagen vascular disease . the application of ventricular pacing was to allow for further in utero development and for reversal of hydrops fetalis after improvement in cardiac output . despite fetal death 4 hours after placement of the ventricular pacing lead , this procedure when applied earlier in the development of hydrops may allow for fetal survival . ventricular pacing was accomplished without apparent trauma to mother or fetus and no evidence of fetal injury was seen at necropsy . therefore , in the fetus who would otherwise die in utero before the point of viability ex utero , fetal ventricular pacing may be a rational alternative to current observation . 
percutaneous coronary laser thermal angioplasty . percutaneous coronary laser thermal angioplasty was successfully performed before conventional balloon angioplasty in a 55 year old white man with a 90 % left anterior descending artery stenotic lesion and angina at rest ( canadian heart association class iv ) . the lesion was reduced to 50 % residual stenosis using a 1.7 mm laser-heated metallic capped fiber and two pulses of 8 w of argon laser energy , each delivered for 5 seconds . with subsequent balloon angioplasty , the lesion was further decreased to 10 % residual stenosis . the entire procedure was well tolerated without chest pain or burning , vessel perforation or spasm , thrombus formation or embolization of debris . the patient was free of pain at 1 month follow-up . this case demonstrates the feasibility of safely performing percutaneous coronary laser thermal angioplasty . additional studies are indicated to determine the clinical role and potential benefits of coronary laser thermal angioplasty in relation to the established procedures of bypass surgery and conventional balloon angioplasty . 
myocyte cell loss and myocyte hypertrophy in the aging rat heart . to determine the effects of age on the myocardium , the functional and structural characteristics of the heart were studied in rats at 3 , 10 to 12 and 19 to 21 months of age . systemic arterial pressure , left ventricular pressure and its first derivative ( dp / dt ) and heart rate were comparable in the three animal groups . in the interval between 3 and 10 to 12 months , mean myocyte cell volume per nucleus increased 53 and 26 % in the left and the right ventricle , respectively . the total number of myocyte nuclei remained constant in either ventricle . in the following period , between 10 to 12 and 19 to 21 months , a 39 % further cellular hypertrophy on the left side of the heart was found in association with an 18 % loss of cells in the ventricle . cell loss was accompanied by discrete areas of interstitial and replacement fibrosis in the subendocardium . in contrast , no myocardial damage was observed in the right ventricle , and the measured 35 % additional enlargement of myocytes occurred without a change in cell number . thus , the aging left ventricle is composed of a smaller number of hypertrophied cells . cellular hypertrophy may explain the unaltered cardiac function of the aged myocardium . 
improved left ventricular filling accompanies reduced left ventricular mass during therapy of essential hypertension . abnormal left ventricular diastolic performance , an early manifestation of hypertension in the heart , may precede the development of left ventricular hypertrophy . to assess effects of antihypertensive therapy on the heart , left ventricular mass ( determined by echocardiography ) and rapid left ventricular filling rate ( determined by radionuclide ventriculography ) were compared before and after 6 months of treatment of 16 patients . nitrendipine ( a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker ) was given alone or in combination with either propranolol or hydrochlorothiazide , or both , and significantly reduced blood pressure ( 156 / 103 + / - 12 / 7 to 137 / 89 + / - 10 / 6 mm hg ) . in 6 of the 16 patients , left ventricular mass decreased by more than 10 % ( 270 + / - 95 to 193 + / - 47 g , p less than 0.01 ) ; in the same patients , left ventricular filling rate increased ( 2.03 + / - 0.35 to 2.30 + / - 0.45 end-diastolic counts / s [ edc / s ] , p less than 0.01 ) . in the one patient whose left ventricular mass increased ( 137 to 195 g ) , left ventricular filling rate decreased from 2.01 to 1.78 edc / s . in the remaining nine patients who had no change in left ventricular mass , there was no significant changes in left ventricular filling . the changes in ventricular mass and filling could not be related to the extent of change in blood pressure or heart rate . these data suggest that regression of left ventricular mass during antihypertensive therapy with nitrendipine is accompanied by improved diastolic function . 
effects of nifedipine on arterial oxygenation at rest and during exercise in patients with stable angina . the effects of nifedipine on arterial oxygenation and hemodynamics were studied at rest and during bicycle exercise in 12 men ( mean age 55 years , range 41 to 67 ) with stable exertional angina . the study was conducted double-blind on 2 days , 1 week apart , using a placebo-controlled crossover design . on each day , measurements at rest were made before and 20 minutes after 20 mg sublingual nifedipine or placebo and were followed by measurements made during exercise . compared with placebo , nifedipine reduced mean arterial pressure , systemic vascular resistance and pulmonary vascular resistance , and increased heart rate and cardiac output at rest and during exercise . it did not alter mean pulmonary artery or pulmonary artery wedge pressures at rest , but decreased them during exercise . nifedipine decreased arterial oxygen tension ( pao2 ) from 96 + / - 10 to 90 + / - 13 mm hg ( p less than 0.05 ) at rest and from 99 + / - 11 to 92 + / - 12 mm hg ( p less than 0.005 ) at submaximal exercise ( 33 + / - 21 w ) , but did not alter it ( 100 + / - 12 versus 100 + / - 16 mm hg , p = ns ) at maximal exercise ( 68 + / - 30 w ) . the reduction in pao2 was not due to alveolar hypoventilation , because nifedipine did not alter arterial carbon dioxide tension , or to changes in mixed venous oxygen tension , which nifedipine increased at rest ( 39 + / - 2 versus 43 + / - 3 mm hg , p less than 0.001 ) and during submaximal exercise ( 31 + / - 4 versus 33 + / - 4 mm hg , p less than 0.03 ) and maximal exercise ( 27 + / - 3 versus 31 + / - 3 mm hg , p less than 0.001 ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
reversible ischemic left ventricular dysfunction : evidence for the " hibernating myocardium " . 
guidelines for clinical use of cardiac radionuclide imaging , december 1986. a report of the american college of cardiology / american heart association task force on assessment of cardiovascular procedures ( subcommittee on nuclear imaging ) . this report describes the nuclear cardiology procedures available for use as diagnostic techniques in patients with definite or suspected cardiovascular disease . the usefulness of myocardial imaging , radionuclide angiocardiography and other radionuclide cardiovascular imaging techniques is classified within specific disease states . the clinical utility of each technique is graded from i to iv , depending on the clinical importance of the technique ( i = most important ; iv = not indicated ) . a grade of v is given for methods now considered to be in their research phase . the usefulness of these methods is discussed in patients with acute ischemic heart disease , chronic ischemic heart disease , valvular heart disease , pulmonary vascular disease and hypertensive heart disease . selected references are provided . 
symposium on thrombosis and antithrombotic therapy--1986 . 
c1 esterase inhibitor : clinical clues to the pathophysiology of angioedema [ editorial ] 
polyethylene glycol-modified ragweed extract : comparison of two treatment regimens . fifty ragweed-sensitive subjects were each administered a course of 12 injections of polyethylene glycol-modified ragweed extract . to investigate the effect of two treatment regimens , subjects were paired according to their skin sensitivity to ragweed extract and the severity of their rhinoconjunctivitis the previous year . one of each pair was randomly allocated to receive injections at weekly intervals , and the other subject was to receive injections daily until a local or systemic adverse reaction occurred and then to switch to a weekly schedule for the rest of the course . blood was obtained immediately before each injection and at the end of the study to examine the rates of change of ragweed-specific ige and igg antibody levels and to evaluate whether these or other variables could be used to predict the occurrence of adverse reactions . immediate reactions were minimal in both groups , but more late reactions occurred in subjects receiving the modified rush regimen ; therefore , although the total number of injections received by the two groups was similar , the total dose of protein injected in the rush group was only half that achieved in the weekly group . treatment induced increases in ragweed-specific ige and igg antibodies in both groups ; the increase in ige was similar in the two groups , but the increase in igg was higher in the weekly group . there was a marked decrease in skin sensitivity to ragweed extract after treatment that was directly related to the igg antibody response , and therefore , these changes were greater in the weekly group . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
the effects of combined h1 and h2 histamine antagonists on alterations in nasal airflow resistance induced by topical histamine provocation . a clinical trial was undertaken to assess the effects of oral h1 ( diphenhydramine hydrochloride ) and h2 ( cimetidine ) histamine blockade on nasal resistance induced by topical histamine . ten adult volunteers were tested on two separate occasions . their noses were pretreated by oral administration of either combined h1 and h2 histamine antagonists or h1 antagonist and placebo . the nasal airflow resistive response to topical histamine was then determined . combined histamine antagonism was significantly more effective in reducing the nasal resistive response to topical histamine than h1 antagonist alone ( p less than 0.0001 ) . furthermore , ingestion of the oral h1 histamine antagonist , diphenhydramine hydrochloride , alone led to an increase in resistance of the unprovoked nose , whereas combined h1 and h2 antagonism did not lead to a significant change . 
efficacy of doxepin in the treatment of chronic idiopathic urticaria . doxepin hydrochloride , a tricyclic antidepressant , was evaluated in a double-blind , placebo-controlled crossover trial for the treatment of chronic idiopathic urticaria in 16 adults . efficacy was evaluated by symptom scores , concomitant antihistamine use , and suppression of histamine- and codeine-induced wheal response . doxepin-treated subjects experienced fewer lesions ( p less than 0.001 ) , less waking hours with lesions ( p less than 0.01 ) , lesser degree of itch and / or discomfort ( p less than 0.001 ) , and less swelling or angioedema ( p less than 0.001 ) as compared to placebo-treated subjects . doxepin-treated subjects required less daily concomitant antihistamine use ( mean 0.13 tablets versus 1.48 tablets , p less than 0.05 ) . doxepin also significantly suppressed histamine- and codeine-induced cutaneous wheal response as compared to placebo . lethargy was commonly observed but diminished with continued use . dry mouth and constipation were also commonly observed . we conclude that doxepin is an effective agent for the treatment of chronic idiopathic urticaria . 
cell-mediated immunity in cat-scratch disease . the importance of cell-mediated immunity in cat-scratch disease ( csd ) is suggested by the positive skin test reactions and granulomatous histopathology noted in patients with this disease . however , an earlier investigation found that lymphocytes from patients with csd and control subjects were equally unresponsive in vitro to cat-scratch antigen . in contrast , we found that 16 patients with csd had significantly increased lymphocyte transformation responses to cat-scratch antigen when patients were compared to control subjects . this cell-mediated immune response may be directed against nonviable bacteria in the involved lymph nodes and may be the major mechanism responsible for the granulomatous reaction and clinical features of csd . 
intestinal lymphangiectasia and bilateral pleural effusions : effect of dietary therapy and surgical intervention on immunologic and pulmonary parameters . this article describes the immunologic and pulmonary abnormalities and the chemical composition of pleural effusion fluid in a patient with intestinal lymphangiectasia as they are effected by therapeutic measures during a 7-year period . lymphedema was first noticed in the patient at 3 years of age , and pleural effusions developed 7 years later . thoracentesis demonstrated that the right pleural fluid was yellow , clear , and had the composition of lymph . the left pleural fluid was milky and had a higher triglyceride and lymphocyte content than the right pleural fluid . complete removal of pleural fluid transiently increased total lung capacity to a maximum of 52 % predicted . strict dietary management with a low-fat and high-protein diet resulted in a transient partial reversal of circulating lymphopenia and low t cell concentration . this was accompanied by a decrease in lymphocyte and t cell concentration in the pleural fluid . unstimulated mononuclear cells from pleural fluid synthesized increased amounts of dna , and added mitogens or antigens further increased dna synthesis . dietary therapy had a minimal effect on this dna synthesis . despite circulating hypogammaglobulinemia , normal antibody activity was detected . the proportion of b cells in pleural fluid was greater than that in the circulation , and dietary therapy did not alter this difference . pulmonary physiology improved during the initial 9-month period of diet therapy , but then the rate of fluid accumulation increased , causing respiratory compromise . stability was achieved by a right-sided pleurodesis , followed 18 months later by a left pleurodesis with the addition of a shunt to provide internal lymph drainage . 
maternal smoking influences cord serum ige and igd levels and increases the risk for subsequent infant allergy . the effects of parental smoking on ige and igd levels in cord serum and subsequent infant allergy were investigated in an unselected series of 186 european newborn infants . maternal smoking caused a significant rise in both ige ( p less than 0.05 ) and igd ( p less than 0.05 ) , a finding that was most apparent in newborn infants with a negative biparental history of allergy ( p less than 0.025 and p = 0.005 , respectively ) . furthermore , newborn infants of nonallergic parents had a more than threefold ( p less than 0.01 ) higher incidence of elevated cord ige ( greater than or equal to 1.20 iu / ml ) and a fourfold ( p = 0.005 ) higher risk of developing definite or probable atopic disease before 18 months of age if the mother smoked than if she did not . paternal smoking did not influence , in whatever the subgroup , cord ige or subsequent infant allergy but increased cord igd ( p less than 0.001 ) among newborn infants with a negative family history even after controlling for maternal smoking ( p less than 0.04 ) . these results suggest that parental smoking in some way affects the fetal immune system , probably via substances in tobacco smoke . maternal smoking in particular appears to exert a pronounced effect on the ige system already in fetal life , predisposing even " low-risk " infants to subsequent sensitization , probably in synergy with a later acquired mucosal damage that would facilitate penetration of foreign matter . pregnant women and mothers should be encouraged to try and give up smoking that might help to prevent allergic disease in their infants . 
oral desensitization to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . intravenous administration of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole ( tms ) on three occasions resulted in fever , rash , and wheezing in a 30-year-old man with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome with pneumocytis carinii pneumonia . pentamidine administration produced fever , severe myositis , and clinical deterioration , and therefore , desensitization to tms was attempted . this was done with low doses of oral suspension and then intravenous administration during a period of 60 hours . the patient reacted with fevers , arthralgia , and erythema that cleared 4 days after the desensitization was completed . this single case of successful desensitization to tms in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome suggests that the oral route may be useful in similar situations when this drug is urgently needed . 
conjunctival basophil hypersensitivity in the guinea pig . we have induced a basophil hypersensitivity reaction in the upper tarsal conjunctiva of the guinea pig by methods that induce a comparable basophil hypersensitivity reaction in the flank . the inflammatory cell infiltrate in this reaction contained large numbers of basophils and eosinophils with accompanying neutrophils and monocytes . ocular tissue can serve as a priming site for systemic immunization and also for elicitation of a secondary flare after challenge with antigen . very few inflammatory cells were observed in the cutaneous epithelium of either primary or secondary flares . in contrast , the mucosal stroma and epithelium contained large numbers of inflammatory cells ( basophils , eosinophils , and neutrophils ) , suggesting directed cellular movement onto the ocular surface . the lesion of ocular basophil hypersensitivity in the guinea pig has features in common with two human eye diseases , vernal conjunctivitis and contact lens-associated giant papillary conjunctivitis . we hypothesize that the acute basophil hypersensitivity reactions of the conjunctiva are transformed into chronic inflammatory and proliferative states in vernal conjunctivitis and giant papillary conjunctivitis . 
cutaneous mast cell heterogeneity : response to antigen in atopic dogs . because mast cells ( mcs ) in skin of atopic dogs are heterogeneous with respect to tissue fixation and staining properties , we determined the effect of antigen on each type of mc in vivo . skin biopsies were done in anesthetized , ragweed-sensitized dogs before and at 1 , 3 , 6 , and 24 hours after intradermal injections of ragweed antigen ( n = 5 ) or glycerin diluent ( n = 4 ) . in each case , one biopsy specimen was fixed with formalin , and a second specimen from an adjacent abdominal site was fixed with basic lead acetate . in sections stained with alcian blue , 49.7 % more mcs ( p less than 0.05 ) were detected in tissue fixed with basic lead acetate ( " typical " plus " atypical " mcs : 2916 + / - 581 / mm3 ; mean + / - sem ) than in tissue fixed with formalin ( " typical " mcs : 1955 + / - 537 / mm3 ) . after antigen , the number of " typical " mcs detectable in tissue sections progressively decreased during the 24-hour period , whereas the number of " atypical " mcs was lowest at 1 hour and had increased at 24 hours . after diluent , mc numbers did not change significantly over time . a late-phase response ( lpr ) , detected clinically as induration and edema , was present 6 hours after antigen in four of five dogs , but lpr was not detected after diluent . the size of lpr was correlated ( r = 0.85 ; p less than 0.05 ) with the decrease in the number of " typical " mcs at 6 hours . we conclude that the response of the " typical " and " atypical " mc to antigen in vivo differs markedly . the " atypical " mcs participate in the early , acute response to antigen , and the " typical " mcs may be associated with the development of the lpr . 
perinatal-maternal relationships in the regulation of ige antibody responsiveness . 
early allergen contacts . 
measurement of allergen concentration in the air as an aid in controlling exposure to aeroallergens . 
indoor allergens . 
drugs as allergens . 
prevention of allergic reactions to penicillin . 
occupational asthma due to chemical agents . 
occupational allergic lung disease caused by organic agents . 
methods of analysis of occupational lung disease . 
suppression of ige and non-ige antibodies to industrial chemicals by conjugates of polyvinyl alcohol . 
contact allergens and prevention of contact dermatitis . 
induction of immunologic tolerance : desensitization to occupational allergens . 
efforts by the united states to coordinate the prevention of occupational allergic diseases in the workplace . the investigator who studies oads must realize that results may impact social , ethical , and moral issues and create economic dilemmas . this is different from most research endeavors , which create warm appreciation for research findings . finally , the researcher may be asked to support , defend , or deny a position that argues or extrapolates beyond the scientific findings--a situation that does not usually occur in " pure " research . many investigators are poorly equipped to deal with these broader issues , and thus confusion and distrust occasionally result . working on oad requires enormous understanding from the interested parties . task force recommendations that fail to consider nonmedical and nonscientific needs for industry and labor are not likely to be welcomed or implemented . 
proceedings of first international symposium on prevention of allergic diseases . june 24-27 , 1984 , florence , italy . 
epidemiologic and socioeconomic aspects of allergic diseases . it is evident that asthma and the other allergic diseases constitute a health problem of international scope . there is a need for well-designed , large-scale , prospective epidemiologic studies designed to define precisely the magnitude of the worldwide problem created by allergic disorders . most studies to date have been small and have involved special groups rather than the entire population . with the exception of data reported from developing countries , prevalence rates for childhood asthma are noted to be both increasing and higher than adult rates . while exact reasons are not known , the state of development of immune system regulation and hyperreactivity to allergens encountered in early life may play a role . whether the actual prevalence and incidence of allergic diseases in children are increasing or whether this observation represents a phenomenon resulting from improved diagnostic methods and recognition of these disorders needs to be established . paradoxically , despite advances in treatment , the severity of asthma and allergic diseases appears to be increasing . accordingly , it is especially important to search for the factors that lead to the expression of immune and hypersensitivity mechanisms . differences in rural and urban populations appear to be real and suggest the need to examine the factors of indoor and outdoor environments created by air pollution , crowding , and allergen exposure and the demands made on the immune system by frequency of challenge by respiratory tract infections . still among the unknowns is the effect on the natural history of allergic disease after changes in urban-rural residences in countries in which helminth infections are not hyper ige-stimulating factors . the creation of new occupationally related allergens at worksites and the contribution of industrialization to the deterioration of the natural environment needs to be adequately assessed . whether breast feeding may have an effect on either the prevention or delayed emergence of food allergies in children requires documentation by long-term prospective studies based on objective testing . a possible relationship between respiratory tract infection and the development of asthma is exemplified by clinical observations . the emergence of asthma in infants increases with successive episodes of bronchiolitis ; triggering of asthmatic attacks by acute respiratory tract viral infections is a common occurrence , especially during childhood years ; and chronic adult onset asthma is often preceded or accompanied by chronic sinusitis or complicated by lower respiratory tract infection . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) 
natural history of " atopy " . 
abnormalities of basophil " releasability " in atopic and asthmatic individuals . 
plicatic acid-specific ige and nonspecific bronchial hyperresponsiveness in western red-cedar workers . in a cross-sectional survey of 652 workers in a western red-cedar sawmill , we obtained data on symptoms , pulmonary function , immediate skin reactivity to common allergens , nonspecific bronchial responsiveness , total ige level , and sensitization to plicatic acid conjugated with human serum albumin as measured by rast . dust exposure was estimated by personal and area sampling for total dust during a work shift and cumulative exposure by duration of employment . seven percent of the workers had an elevated rast , and 20 % had nonspecific bronchial hyperresponsiveness . elevation in rast was associated with bronchial hyperresponsiveness . almost half ( 46 % ) of the workers with rast elevation had bronchial hyperresponsiveness compared to 18 % in workers with no rast elevation . the association was unaffected by total ige level or by limiting the analysis to workers without respiratory symptoms and was most apparent in younger workers . bronchial hyperresponsiveness was associated with increased prevalence of respiratory symptoms as well as with lower levels of pulmonary function . the likelihood of bronchial hyperresponsiveness increased with increasing age but was unrelated to the dust-exposure concentration . rast elevation was unrelated to employment duration or dust exposure and was not associated with an increased prevalence of symptoms or lower levels of pulmonary function independent of bronchial hyperresponsiveness . we conclude that plicatic acid-specific ige and nonspecific bronchial hyperresponsiveness are associated in western red-cedar workers and that this association may reflect a causal connection . 
allergy to white potato . allergy to potato is uncommon , and even more uncommon is allergy to potato pollen . the occurrence of both phenomena in the same patient made it possible to study cross-reactivity patterns of potato antigens . an 11-year-old girl , exclusively breast-fed for her first 4 months , developed anaphylactic symptoms after ingestion of potato at 5 months of age when she was fed potato for the first time . subsequently , she developed urticaria , angioedema , and respiratory and systemic symptoms on contact with potatoes , ingestion of potatoes , and exposure to cooking potatoes or potato pollen . three allergenic extracts from potato pulp , peel , and pollen were prepared . polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate and isoelectrofocusing of the three extracts were performed . ige-mediated allergy to these extracts was demonstrated by means of immediate skin test reactivity , positive passive transfer , rast , rast inhibition , and leukocyte histamine release . sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the pulp extract followed by electroblotting and autoradiography demonstrated specific ige antibodies directed against several proteins ranging from 14 , 000 to 40 , 000 daltons . 
the value of rocket immunoelectrophoresis for c4 activation in the evaluation of patients with angioedema or c1-inhibitor deficiency . the correct diagnosis and characterization of c1-inhibitor deficiency depends on both clinical observations and laboratory evaluation of complement in plasma . rocket immunoelectrophoresis for c4d is a sensitive assay for c4 activation in plasma . we have evaluated the value of this assay in identifying patients with c1-inhibitor deficiency . c4 activation was assessed in the plasmas of 15 patients with hereditary angioedema , five patients with variant form of hereditary angioedema , and four patients with acquired c1-inhibitor deficiency . control groups consisted of 27 patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria and / or angioedema and seven normal volunteers . c4 activation was detected in all 52 plasma samples collected from the 24 patients with c1-inhibitor deficiency . the degree of c4 activation increased during attacks of angioedema and decreased ( but remained elevated ) during treatment with attenuated androgens . the concentrations of c4 , c2 , and c1 inhibitor were also measured ; however , none of these measurements identified all of the patients with c1-inhibitor deficiency . thus , we conclude that the measurement of c4 activation is one of the best tests available to evaluate a patient for c1-inhibitor deficiency , and a normal result will exclude the diagnosis of c1-inhibitor deficiency . 
increased compound 48 / 80 induced local histamine release from nonlesional skin of patients with chronic urticaria . histamine released from skin mast cells in normal skin sites of patients with idiopathic chronic urticaria ( cu ) and normal volunteers was assessed with the skin chamber technique . small amounts of histamine were spontaneously and continuously released during the 4-hour observation in both groups but were twofold greater in patients with cu . in addition , histamine levels were significantly more elevated in sites challenged with compound 48 / 80 than in unstimulated sites . patients with cu differed from normal volunteers in that histamine release induced by 48 / 80 compound was significantly greater at 1 and 2 hours after challenge . the number of mast cells and the histamine content of the skin did not differ in the two groups . these observations could suggest a functional defect at the mast cell level rather than a difference in their numbers . 
red wine asthma : a controlled challenge study . drinking red wine may provoke bronchospasm in subjects with asthma . in order to reveal some of the possible agents involved in this reaction , 18 patients with a history of red wine-induced asthma were studied . they received , in a double-blind fashion , red wine with low sulfur dioxide ( so2 ) and high amine , high so2 and high amine and low so2 and low amine content . in each challenge , the wine was administered in stepwise increasing quantities until a total of 385 ml or a fall in peak expiratory flow of greater than 15 % was reached . nine subjects demonstrated a significant fall in peak flow in one or more challenges . in all cases the most severe reaction was observed after the wine with high so2 content . the study suggests that so2 is the most important factor in red wine-induced asthma . it is recommended that wine labels provide information on the so2 content . 
lack of acute effects of ascorbic acid on spirometry and airway responsiveness to histamine in subjects with asthma . sixteen adult subjects with asthma in a clinical steady state were studied . on day 1 , after baseline spirometry , they underwent four histamine inhalation tests with functional recovery between each test . the provocative concentration causing a 20 % fall in fev1 ( pc20 ) was obtained after each test . on days 2 , 3 , and 4 , after baseline spirometry , active and placebo ascorbic acid ( 2 gm ) was administered orally , double-blind , according to a 4.3.1 two-treatment crossover study design . one hour later , spirometry was performed , and pc20 was reassessed . we found no significant changes in fev1 and fvc after ascorbic acid as compared with placebo administration . there was no difference between pc20 on days 2 , 3 , and 4 and by standardizing for the four pc20 results obtained on day 1. we conclude that ascorbic acid has no acute bronchodilator effect and does not alter bronchial responsiveness to histamine in subjects with asthma . 
comparison of subcutaneous injection and high-dose inhalation of epinephrine--implications for self-treatment to prevent anaphylaxis . the plasma concentrations of epinephrine were determined in healthy subjects administered epinephrine by subcutaneous injection of 0.5 mg or inhalation of 1.5 to 4.5 mg ( 10 to 30 inhalations from a metered-dose aerosol ) . the absorption of injected epinephrine was variable and in several cases very slow . the individual maximum values for epinephrine in plasma were 4.65 + / - 1.09 ( range 0.74 to 8.31 ) nmol / l , and these maxima were attained 5 to 120 minutes after injection . inhaled epinephrine was rapidly and dose dependently absorbed . ten inhalations resulted in 2.72 + / - 0.84 ( 0.75 to 5.67 ) nmol / l within 5 minutes and 20 inhalations resulted in 7.19 + / - 1.78 ( 2.10 to 13.83 ) nmol / l with rapid increases and maxima within 20 minutes in seven of eight subjects . gastrointestinal side effects were dose limiting when epinephrine was administered by inhalation . our results indicate that inhalation of 2 to 3 mg of epinephrine produces rapid increases of epinephrine concentrations in plasma to levels that have previously been demonstrated to counteract bronchoconstriction induced by inhaled allergen in subjects with asthma . inhalation has several advantages over injection for self-administration of epinephrine , e.g. , in patients who are allergic to insect ( hymenoptera ) stings . apart from the absorption being more rapid , the locally high concentrations of epinephrine in the airways should be advantageous , since bronchoconstriction is one of the life-threatening phenomena of the anaphylactic reaction . this route of administration is also simple for the patient . 
exposure to a sensitizing occupational agent can cause a long-lasting increase in bronchial responsiveness to histamine in the absence of significant changes in airway caliber . a 58-year-old subject with a history of occupational asthma to red-cedar sawdust underwent specific inhalation challenges with this product . significant increases in airway responsiveness to histamine ( tenfold fall in pc20 fev1 ) were documented 7 hours after exposure for 5 minutes to red cedar while baseline spirometry remained unchanged . a dual asthmatic reaction was induced during the following days by exposing the subject to red-cedar sawdust for 30 minutes and plicatic acid for 7 minutes . after recovery of pc20 , the subject was reexposed to plicatic acid for 15 and 30 seconds on 2 consecutive days . no significant changes in fev1 , forced vital capacity , and residual volume were demonstrated in the following 8 hours , although minimal changes in forced expiratory flow rate between 25 % and 75 % of fvc were observed . pc20 dropped significantly and required 2 weeks to recover . this example illustrates that bronchial hyperresponsiveness to histamine can precede the changes in airway caliber after an antigen challenge . it also demonstrates that such changes can persist for up to 2 weeks after the challenge , even when no significant changes in fev1 are induced . 
a study of the human immune response to lolium perenne ( rye ) pollen and its components , lol p i and lol p ii ( rye i and rye ii ) . i . prevalence of reactivity to the allergens and correlations among skin test , ige antibody , and igg antibody data . in a stratified random sample of 320 white adults , the prevalence of puncture skin test positivity ( st + ) to lolium perenne ( rye grass ) -pollen extract ( lpe ) was 16 % . fifteen percent of all subjects ( or 84 % of subjects classified lpe ige antibody positive [ ab + ] ) was classified ige ab + to highly purified lol p i ( rye i ) , and 4 % of all subjects ( or 26 % of subjects classified lpe ige ab + ) was classified ige ab + to highly purified lol p ii ( rye ii ) . these data and similar results obtained in an allergy-enriched group of 361 subjects are consistent with previous studies that lol i is a major allergen and lol ii is a minor allergen of lpe . whether we studied lpe , lol i , or lol ii , responder subjects were younger than nonresponder subjects and more male than female subjects were responders . we then investigated the quantitative interrelationships among st , ige , and igg ab responsiveness to lpe , lol i , and lol ii in the allergy-enriched group . for each allergen , log-log correlations were strong and significant for st versus ige ab and for ige ab versus igg ab . all subjects ige ab + to lol i or lol ii were igg ab + to that allergen , supporting other evidence for a commonality in the genetic control influencing the production of ige and igg abs to a given allergen . log-log correlations among st end points , ige ab levels , or igg ab levels were strong for lpe versus either lol i or lol ii but weak between lol i and lol ii , consistent with the reported lack of cross-reactivity between lol i and lol ii . despite these findings , almost all lol ii + subjects were lol i + by st ( 98 % ) , ige ab ( 91 % ) , and igg ab ( 83 % ) , suggesting that the ia-restricted immune recognition of both these molecules is at least in part under a common genetic control . 
the american dietetic association 's nutrition recommendations for women . 
prenatal weight gains related to the birth of healthy-sized infants to low-income women . prepregnancy weight status and weight gain during pregnancy are major independent variables associated with infant birth weight . this study quantitated the influence of weight gain on birth weight and identified rates and total amounts of weight gain related to the birth of healthy-sized infants to healthy low-income women who entered pregnancy underweight , at normal weight , overweight , or obese . data used in the study were obtained from randomly sampled prenatal health records from maternal and infant care ( mic ) projects in cleveland and minneapolis . subsamples of healthy mothers who delivered healthy-sized infants were identified from each sample , and rates and total amounts of weight gain by prepregnancy weight status group were calculated . there were 384 healthy mother and healthy-sized infant pairs in the cleveland subsample and 75 such pairs in the minneapolis sample . multiple regression analysis revealed that the influence of prenatal weight gain and birth weight varied depending on prepregnancy weight status . prenatal weight gains related to the birth of healthy-sized infants ( newborns with birth weights of 3 , 000 to 4 , 500 gm ) to healthy mothers in the cleveland mic sample averaged 33 lb for underweight , 32 lb for normal weight , 29 lb for overweight , and 19 lb for obese women . except for obese women , rates and total amount of weight gain associated with the birth of healthy-sized infants were equivalent for the two samples . 
food procurement and the nutritional adequacy of diets in low-income families . seventy-six white and black low-income families were interviewed weekly during 1 month to determine how much they spent on food using food stamps , wic coupons , and cash and how much additional food they obtained from different food and meals programs . after families had received their public assistance and food stamp allotments for the month , a 24-hour recall was obtained each week from each family member so that food intake could be monitored from the recalls as food-buying resources were depleted . although families bought most of their food the first 2 weeks , they maintained a relatively constant food intake through the last week of the month . however , when nutrient intakes were compared with recommended dietary allowances , the diets were found to be well supplied in protein , ascorbic acid , thiamin , niacin , riboflavin , vitamin b-12 , vitamin a , and phosphorus , and inadequately supplied in vitamin b-6 , vitamin d , vitamin e , iron , calcium , magnesium , zinc , and pantothenic acid . since that finding was true not just at the end of the month but from the beginning , it indicated that the nutrition problems of low-income families are not intermittent , but continuous . 
health awareness and life-style practices of employees in extended-care facilities . from six extended-care facilities , 306 employees responded to a questionnaire on perceived life-style . most respondents were female , married , and under age 35. the majority had had recent blood pressure checks , seldom missed work because of infections , made time for leisure activities , and felt secure in their jobs . overall , the percentage of smokers was slightly below the national average , but 45 % of the technical employees smoked . perception of overweight and skipped meals increased with level of education . consumption of fried foods and sweets decreased with the level of education while fiber intake increased . more skilled and technical employees than professional employees consumed milk products . less than half of any employee group consumed excessive amounts of coffee or colas . few study participants consumed alcohol . very few members of any group consumed meals away from home five or more times per week . less than half of all employees believed that they received enough exercise ; one-third or less exercised regularly . a greater percentage of technical employees than of the other two employee groups expressed interest in improving health through physical fitness and class sessions . 
occurrence sampling in a residence hall foodservice : entree production times . occurrence sampling was used in the main production area of a university residence hall foodservice to measure and analyze work functions involved in entree production and to determine time requirements for entree categories . sixteen entrees were investigated : seven single-item , six combination , and three roast . data collection took place in a period of 5 days over a 2-week span . a total of 3 , 891 observations was recorded during 297 labor hours . results of the study indicated 59.2 % of the total labor time was spent in direct work , 23.3 % in indirect work , and 17.5 % in delays . the preparation work function represented the highest proportion of labor time for both single-item and roast entrees , but prepreparation consumed the greatest amount of time for combination entrees . mean labor minutes per serving for the 16 entrees were 0.9 , with a range of 0.4 to 3.5 . mean labor minutes per serving for combination entrees were 1.4 , which was the highest among the three groups ; range was from 0.4 to 3.5 minutes per serving . for single item entrees , mean minutes per serving were 0.6 , with a range of 0.4 to 0.8 . roast entrees , had a mean time requirement per serving of 0.5 minute , with a range of 0.4 to 0.6 . 
obese , overweight , desirable , ideal : where to draw the line in 1986 ? in february 1985 , the national institutes of health sponsored the consensus development conference on the health implications of obesity . the panel of experts concluded that height and weight tables based on mortality data and the body mass index ( bmi ) are helpful measures to determine the presence of obesity and the need for treatment . for the dietitian , however , practical concerns arise regarding which index to select . the usefulness of the bmi in patient education and contradictions between the 1959 and 1983 metropolitan life insurance height-weight tables are discussed . a temporary solution is offered in light of the need for further investigation into morbidity experience at weights recommended in the 1983 table . 
cultural foods education : an exploratory study of dietitians and plan iv programs in california . california dietitians require skills in working with the large ethnic populations in that state . cultural foods education needs must be identified and evaluated so that they can be appropriately addressed in the nutrition and dietetics curriculums . dietitians employed in california hospitals were surveyed to assess their cultural foods knowledge and determine cultural foods education needs . demographic and opinion data were requested , and knowledge of the food habits of the six largest ethnic groups in the state was tested . california colleges and universities offering ada plan iv programs were sent questionnaires regarding the goals , content , and methodology of and the enrollment in cultural foods courses . results of the dietitian survey ( no . = 184 ; response rate 51 % ) showed a positive association ( p less than .05 ) between the total score on the cultural foods knowledge test ( average score = 62 % correct ) and completion of a college cultural foods course . results of the plan iv program survey ( no . = 16 ; response rate 93 % ) indicate that 86 % of the colleges and universities offer at least one cultural foods course . in 53 % of those colleges and universities , plan iv students are required to take such a course . course content corresponds well to needs identified in the answers to the dietitian questionnaire . more emphasis on " ethnic food habits " and " disease and food habits " is recommended in the nutrition and dietetics curriculums . 
developing competency tests for oklahoma 's dietetic support personnel program . competency tests were developed for oklahoma 's dietetic support personnel training program to assure the professional quality of its graduates . the tests ' content validity was assured through an elaborate committee validation process . the tests ' reliability was investigated using split-halves methods , and their criterion-related validity was investigated using non-parametric methods to correlate workers ' test scores with employers ' on-the-job performance ratings . the tests ' reliability indexes varied between 0.88 and 0.97 , indicating their consistency . their validity indexes varied between 0.13 and 0.78 , indicating the need for further work in some test areas . 
creativity in marketing a nutrition counseling service . 
the effect of tasting food samples on the use of recipes distributed in nutrition counseling . 
evaluation of dietary screening tools appropriate for dental practices . 
infant formulas [ letter ] 
vitamin a and cancer [ letter ] 
lactation educators / consultants [ letter ] 
stressing the postural response . a quantitative method for testing balance . using a series of graded destabilizing forces , we have developed a simple quantitative test of the postural response : the postural stress test ( pst ) . suitable for widespread testing of elderly subjects , the test evaluates the subject 's ability to avoid a fall as well as the appropriateness of the response . we have determined that by comparison with young subjects , the elderly controls have compromised although functionally effective balance . on the other hand , the balance response was severely compromised in half of the individuals with a history of falls . experience with the postural stress test suggests it will predict those elderly individuals with a tendency to fall as well as provide a simple mechanism for studying the balance response in the elderly . 
validation of the functional assessment inventory against a multidisciplinary home care team . systematic multidimensional assessment techniques such as the functional assessment inventory ( fai ) are increasingly used with the elderly for outcome measurement , prediction of service needs , and accurate description for comparative purposes . the fai is a structured interview followed by a rating process which compares patient status against standard descriptive phrases . patients are assessed in five areas : mental health , physical health , social resources , economic resources , and activities of daily living ( adl ) . the validity of the fai was tested by comparing ratings of patient health obtained by a single investigator using only the instrument with ratings obtained by consensus from an interdisciplinary home care team providing long-term care for the patients studied . an excellent level of agreement ( weighted kappas from .583 to .780 ) was found in all areas studied . a single significant difference in adl rating with a high correlation coefficient ( r = .85 ) was interpreted as due to a difference between the single rater and the team in the definition of adl . the ease of obtaining summary ratings from clinical personnel suggests that further exploration of this rapid quantification of patient health is warranted . 
dementia of the alzheimer 's type and depression . this retrospective review of medical records was designed to address three questions : 1 ) can the depression seen in some patients with dementia of the alzheimer 's type ( dat ) be successfully treated ? 2 ) does this treatment lead to any long-term improvement in the patient 's cognitive status ? and 3 ) do patients with coexisting dat and depression have a different long-term clinical course than nondepressed dat patients ? in the authors ' sample of 131 dat subjects , 41 ( 31 % ) also met dms-iii criteria for a major affective disorder . of those dat plus depression patients whose records reflected treatment ( usually with a tricyclic antidepressant ) , 85 % ( 17 of 20 ) showed clear evidence of improvement in mood , vegetative signs , or activities of daily living ( adls ) based on review of the medical record . an analysis of change in cognitive function ( measured by the folstein mini-mental state ) and five global measures failed to reveal any differences between the depressed and nondepressed groups after a mean interval of 17 months . the depression that occurs in approximately one-quarter to one-third of dat patients appears to respond to appropriate therapy . these patients often show improvement in their mood and adls but remain demented . 
wheelchair use by ambulatory nursing home residents . in a survey of wheelchair use in two nursing homes , the authors found a substantial number of cognitively intact nursing home residents who walked , but who also used a wheelchair . using chart review and interviews with the residents , it was found that multiple physical factors , including pain , strength , endurance , vision and balance , and multiple social and environmental factors , including the fear of falling , were related to the resident 's decision to use a wheelchair as an alternative means of mobility . a physical examination focused on aspects of mobility was completed on each resident and was intended to characterize the physical limitations in groups studied . in the nursing home environment , use of the wheelchair is viewed by the residents as a self-initiated choice which the residents believed significantly enhanced their sense of well-being . finally , there was minimal recognition of mobility as a problem on the part of the medical and nursing staff . the study raises a number of important issues concerning walking versus wheelchair use in the nursing home . 
age and the declining rate of autopsy . to better understand declining autopsy rates , data have been gathered prospectively on 1080 consecutive deaths over six years among patients admitted to a medical intensive care / coronary care unit . overall autopsy rate was 36 % . autopsy rates declined sharply with age from 60 % for those aged 16 to 34 years to 23 % for those 85 and over ( p less than .001 ) . the highest rates by diagnosis were aortic aneurysm ( 70 % ) , hepatic failure ( 52 % ) , heart rhythm disturbance ( 48 % ) , pulmonary embolism ( 45 % ) , and sepsis ( 41 % ) . patients receiving major procedures had a significantly higher autopsy rate ( 38 versus 29 % , p less than .05 ) but rates bore little relation to prognoses given at admission by house officers , suddenness of death , sex , marital status or year of admission . even among intensively treated patients , autopsy rates decline strikingly with age , demanding honest re-appraisal to restore the place of autopsy in medical education , clinical research , and quality of care assessment for an increasingly elderly population . 
treatment of dementia in a medical day care program . an analysis was completed of 34 patients with dementia who attended a mixed medical day care program over a five-year period . the parameters reviewed included age , home situation , diagnosis , incidence of co-existent medical disorders , management by the social worker , nurses and neuropsychiatrist , the extent of social and program participation , length of stay , and disposition . there was a high incidence of medical problems which were managed effectively because of close nursing observation , availability of ancillary services , specialty clinics , and frequent communication with the community physicians . the social worker assisted families with the management of long-term planning for the dementia patients and the entire social-nursing-recreational therapy team devised programs which encouraged the patients to function at an optimum level . neuropsychiatric management , including drug therapy , was an integral part of the program . despite the fact that the dementia patients were at high risk , with an average age of 81 years the average duration of attendance was two years four months and only nine of the 34 patients ultimately required nursing home placement . it was concluded that the day care program served as a resource which devised , integrated , and supervised , in cooperation with the community physicians , the support network and management strategies for the dementia patients . 
hyperthyroidism in the elderly . it is not uncommon for thyrotoxicosis to appear in an atypical manner in older patients . the classical symptoms are often absent . the disease is frequently characterized by cardiac , gastrointestinal , neuromuscular , and neuropsychiatric symptoms . as hyperthyroidism is readily amenable to effective treatment that can improve the quality of life , the clinical suspicion of this disease is always indicated and exclusion of this diagnosis should always be pursued . recognizing the admittedly great difficulty in making , or even suspecting , the diagnosis of hyperthyroidism in the elderly , our rule is to test for hyperthyroidism in essentially all geriatric patients presenting chronic systemic symptoms or signs . on the other hand , we do not recommend community-wide screening of persons over 60 for hyperthyroidism . community-wide screening falls far below the break-even point in cost-benefit analysis . the most sensible detector of hyperthyroidism now widely available is the serum free t3 index ( ft3i ) , but it may be falsely normal because of the effect of systemic illness on extrathyroidal t4-to-t3 conversion . the advent of ultrasensitive methods for tsh may change these statements considerably . it may become the single screening procedure for both hyper- and hypothyroidism . 
teaching geriatric medicine in the ambulatory setting . 
neuroleptic malignant syndrome in alzheimer 's disease . 
the institutionalization of geriatrics . 
alcoholic liver disease in japan . from these discussions , it is apparent that : alcoholic liver disease is increasing at a rapid rate in conjunction with an increase of annual gross and per capita consumption of alcohol . alcoholic hepatitis and alcoholic hyaline are much less common in japan compared to western countries . alcoholic hepatic fibrosis and chronic hepatitis are the common types of alcoholic liver disease in japan . alcoholic hepatic fibrosis may be a pathological process or entity independent of fatty liver , alcoholic hepatitis , and alcoholic cirrhosis . it is not clear at the present time whether heavy alcohol consumption per se or non-a , non-b hepatitis virus is the cause of chronic hepatitis seen in hbsag negative alcoholics . 
esophageal involvement in behcet 's syndrome . two patients with behcet 's syndrome had severe esophageal involvement . both presented the complete clinical pattern ( oral , genital , and eye lesions ) of behcet 's syndrome . in both , esophageal lesions were associated with other gastrointestinal manifestations , in the first a transient episode of ulcerative ileitis , and in the second patient colitis . in both , the differential diagnosis with inflammatory bowel disease was very difficult . histology of esophageal lesions was nonspecific ; no vasculitis was found . both patients improved on steroid therapy . esophageal lesions also improved endoscopically and histologically with steroid therapy . when there is obvious gastrointestinal involvement in behcet 's syndrome , the differential diagnosis from inflammatory bowel disease is very difficult . 
gastrointestinal endoscopy in octagenarians . seventy-five patients , 80-90 years old , each having approximately three associated diseases , underwent a total of 104 gastrointestinal endoscopies . of these , 73 were upper ( 29 emergencies ) and 31 lower endoscopies ( 21 were rigid sigmoidoscopies ) . there were two very mild short-lived complications ; vomiting and bleeding . we found 16 gastric ulcers , 16 duodenal or pyloric ulcers , and 11 cases of esophagitis . bleeding duodenal ( 8 ) or gastric ( 4 ) ulcers and polyps or malignant tumors ( 7 ) were seen less often . in 34 of 68 lesions the endoscopic and x-ray findings were the same . in the other 34 there were 10 endoscopic failures to identify colonic diverticula , hiatus hernia , and gastroesophageal reflux that were seen radiologically . in 24 patients , diagnoses were not made radiologically , but were recognized at endoscopy . the safety and accuracy of endoscopy in the old and sick does not differ from that in younger patients . 
dietary habits in patients with dumping syndrome-like symptoms after proximal selective vagotomy . patients who had undergone proximal selective vagotomy and who had severe postprandial dumping symptoms took in less food , energy , and nutrients than those who were mildly symptomatic or who were healthy . 
characteristics and occurrence of appendicitis in the black population in johannesburg , south africa . in black patients seen at baragwanath hospital , johannesburg , appendicitis occurs most frequently in the 10-19-year-old age group . there is a pronounced male bias . parasitic ova in the appendix are very seldom observed ( 3.6 % ) . fecaliths , present in 20 % of diseased appendices , are noted far less frequently than are reported for white patients ( 50 % -75 % ) . there are about two cases of appendicitis per 1 , 000 admissions of adults annually , a low frequency consistent with the tenfold differential of appendectomies reported to prevail in urban black and white adolescents . the progressively changing diet of urban blacks , currently low in fat and in dietary fiber , has not yet become associated with a marked increase in the occurrence of the disease ( nor of most other noninfective bowel diseases ) . 
circulating interferon-like activity in inflammatory bowel disease . inflammatory bowel diseases ( ibd ) has been characterized as having an autoimmune background . we studied the presence of immune interferon in the sera of a small number of patients with ibd . antiviral activity was detectable in the sera of our patients with well-controlled ibd but it was mainly weak-positive ( 50 % inhibition of virus cpe in a dilution of 1 : 10 per 0.2 ml of serum ) . the antiviral activity varied according to the sensitivity of the cell line used . the human amnion cells wish ( 81 % ) and the human embryonic intestine-407 ( 73 % ) were more sensitive . 
obstructive jaundice in the south african black population . we report the causes of obstructive jaundice in 56 black south african patients . chronic pancreatitis and malignant biliary obstruction occurred with equal frequency . these two conditions may be difficult to differentiate clinically and radiologically , and only operative pancreatic biopsy may be diagnostic . choledocholithiasis caused jaundice in only 7.1 % of the patients , reflecting the relatively low prevalence of gallstones in this population . 
surgical procedures are well tolerated by patients with asymptomatic chronic hepatitis . in a retrospective study i assessed operative mortality in patients with biopsy-proven chronic hepatitis . most patients had no symptoms from their liver disease . all patients were considered to have a viral cause of their chronic hepatitis--five were hepatitis-b surface antigen positive . seven patients had chronic persistent hepatitis , and 13 had chronic active hepatitis ( including four with cirrhosis ) . twenty patients underwent 34 operative procedures , including 28 general endotracheal anesthesia and six spinal anesthesia . although two patients who had preoperative bilirubin levels of 2.5 mg / dl or greater sustained further increases in serum bilirubin postoperatively , the serum liver chemistries of the entire group did not significantly worsen postoperatively . there was no anesthesia-related liver failure or operative mortality . patients with asymptomatic chronic hepatitis tolerate surgical procedures well . 
amebic abscess of the liver . diagnostic features . the continued influx of immigrants from mexico , central america , and southeast asia to the united states has resulted in an increased incidence of several diseases not generally seen in industrialized nations in the twentieth century . one of these is amebic abscess of the liver . this review of the diagnostic features of 57 patients with amebic abscess of the liver treated in one los angeles county hospital emphasizes the diagnosis and the versatility of the various roentgenologic approaches and serologic tests . 
congenital esophageal stenosis . transendoscopic web incision . we treated a case of congenital membranous stenosis of the esophagus successfully by transendoscopic incision . we discuss various types of true congenital esophageal stenosis and their treatment , to distinguish these rare anomalies from the more frequently encountered acquired variety . 
is hypertrophic osteoarthropathy really so rare in regional enteritis ? we describe a patient with hypertrophic osteoarthropathy secondary to regional enteritis , and review the literature on their association . the apparent different distribution of hypertrophic osteoarthropathy secondary to other causes may be artifactual and related to inadequate radiological investigation . hypertrophic osteoarthropathy does not appear to be related to regional enteritis activity . 
pericarditis and ulcerative colitis . we report an 18-year-old man with a pericardial effusion complicating idiopathic ulcerative colitis . circulating immune complexes were absent . he responded to sulfasalazine and prednisone , with resolution of the pericarditis and improvement in the symptoms of his inflammatory bowel disease ( ibd ) . we recommend looking for pericardial effusion or pericarditis in patients with ibd and chest symptoms , and for ibd in obscure cases of these cardiac disorders . 
sulindac-associated small bowel lesion . diarrhea and a small bowel lesion similar to that reported in celiac sprue were observed in a patient who had been taking sulindac . symptoms and biopsy abnormalities resolved completely after discontinuation of the medication and promptly recurred upon its re-administration . this report emphasizes the need to consider possible drug-related small bowel disease in the growing list of causes of the " flat " small intestinal mucosal lesion . 
colitis after hibiclens enema . acute colitis occurred after a hibiclens cleanser enema . endoscopic and histologic features were not helpful in distinguishing this colitis from an infectious or idiopathic colitis , and a careful history proved invaluable . we review the complications of using soapsuds and various chemical-containing enemas ; these complications range from mild colitis to death . because soap and other chemicals are damaging to colonic mucosa , these enemas should be included as a cause of acute colitis . 
cowden disease . a hereditary polyposis syndrome diagnosable by mucocutaneous inspection . cowden disease ( multiple harmartoma syndrome ) is of particular interest because the diagnostic mucocutaneous findings are coupled with a striking association of thyroid cancer , breast cancer , and polyposis of the gastrointestinal tract . we report a case of cowden disease with particular emphasis on the natural history of the case . although our case is the second reported with colon carcinoma , the absence of adenomatous polyps in other reports of cowden disease and the stability of the gastrointestinal polyps in our patient over a seven-year period lead us to conclude that the risk of gastrointestinal malignancy is very low . 
difficulty in diagnosing complications of caroli 's disease . congenital cystic dilatation of the biliary tree ( caroli 's disease ) is a rare condition that usually presents with ascending cholangitis . this report demonstrates the difficulty of recognizing other complications of caroli 's disease antemortem . a 35-year-old man developed a subphrenic abscess and malignant transformation of the biliary tree ; both were clinically undetected . episodes of pain , pyrexia , or weight loss should be assessed carefully and the complications of caroli 's disease considered before attributing such symptoms to recurrent cholangitis . 
budd-chiari-like syndrome in caroli 's disease . caroli 's disease was complicated by a budd-chiari-like syndrome as a result of enlarged lymph nodes that compressed the vena cava . histologically the picture was compatible with " sinus histiocytosis with massive lymphadenopathy . " we discuss the combination of these two rare disorders . 
the strictures , sinuses , and fissures of crohn 's disease . one hundred forty-six consecutive specimens of excised bowel from patients with crohn 's disease were studied to determine the relationships between strictures , sinuses , and " fissures . " a significant coincidence of sinuses and strictures was observed and sinuses tended to arise proximal to the point of maximal stricture . " fissures , " defined as blind-ending inflammatory tracts that did not penetrate through the full thickness of the muscle coat , were of two types . one type was associated with submucosal fibromuscular hyperplasia and repair and appeared to be an early sinus . the second type was in dilated ileum or colon in the bases of ulcers and is designated an " acute fissure . " the anatomic findings suggest that both sinuses and fissures may be due to mechanical factors including intraluminal pressure rather than to any intrinsic quality of the inflammatory process in crohn 's disease . 
serum cholinesterase in patients with fatty liver . in search of a practical biochemical test that will reflect hepatic steatosis , we assessed the significance of serum cholinesterase activity in 48 patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver , 16 obese subjects without fatty liver , 30 cases of chronic persistent hepatitis , 38 cases of chronic active hepatitis , and 20 cases of liver cirrhosis . increased cholinesterase activity was observed in nonobese as well as obese patients with fatty liver , whereas obese subjects without fatty liver showed levels in the upper normal range . when we set a cutoff level above the upper normal limit , half of the patients with fatty liver showed values above it , with only a few overlaps with other patients . when obese patients with fatty liver took a low-caloric diet , cholinesterase activity decreased , clearly reflecting improvement of hepatic steatosis . thus , measurement of cholinesterase activity is of diagnostic value and an alternative to computed tomography in hepatic steatosis , and will provide a practical measure for the assessment of effects during follow-up . 
neurological dysfunction as a presentation of intussusception in an infant . 
campylobacter fetus ss . jejuni : a cause of solitary cecal ulcer . 
perforation of duodenal ulcer following gastric exclusion operation for morbid obesity . 
prazosin treatment suppresses increased vascular permeability in both acute and passively transferred experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in the lewis rat . prazosin , an antagonist of the alpha 1-adrenoceptor , has been found to suppress the clinical and histologic expression of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis ( eae ) in the lewis rat . this effect appears to be specific for the alpha 1-receptor . to determine the effect of this drug on vascular permeability to serum proteins and inflammatory cells , leakage of serum proteins into the central nervous system ( cns ) was measured with [ 125i ] albumin , and quantitation of cellular inflammation was determined by an estimation of total dna . the results show that in both actively induced and passively transferred models of the disease , treatment with prazosin significantly suppresses leakage of serum proteins into the cns but does not significantly suppress the increase of dna . the results of the [ 125i ] albumin studies additionally support the conclusion that the extent of vascular permeability to serum proteins in the spinal cord is a significant correlate of clinical disease . the results of the dna estimation were at variance with the histologic evidence of cellular infiltration . we conclude that treatment with prazosin has a significant effect on the development of vascular edema in eae . these results additionally validate a role for the adrenergic receptor in the development of eae , and support the hypothesis that the primary site of action of prazosin is on the vascular alpha 1-adrenoceptor . 
patients with wiskott-aldrich syndrome have normal igg2 levels . the wiskott-aldrich syndrome ( was ) in humans has a number of similarities to the immunodeficiencies found in cba / n mice , including x-chromosome-linked inheritance , inability to produce antibodies to various carbohydrate antigens , susceptibility to various bacterial infections , and an imbalance in b lymphocyte subpopulations . moreover , in both man and mice , igg antibodies to polysaccharides are predominantly , but not exclusively , restricted to a single igg subclass--igg2 in man , and igg3 in the mouse . because cba / n mice have a deficiency of igg3 antibodies and because human igg2 subclass deficiencies have been generally associated with inability to produce antibodies to carbohydrate antigens , it would seem likely that patients with was would have greatly reduced levels of igg2 . quite to the contrary , the data presented here demonstrate that was patients have normal levels of the different igg subclasses , including igg2 . thus , inability to produce antibodies to carbohydrates is not always associated with igg2 subclass deficiency . 
pertussigen in vivo enhances antigen-specific production in vitro of lymphokine that stimulates macrophage procoagulant activity and plasminogen activator . pertussigen is a protein toxin of bordetella pertussis that acts as a powerful stimulator of the intensity and duration of delayed-type hypersensitivity ( dth ) in mice . this study describes the potent in vivo effect of pertussigen on the levels of antigen-specific macrophage-activating lymphokine ( s ) ; lymphokine ( s ) was measured by the stimulation of macrophage procoagulant activity ( mpca ) , or plasminogen activator ( pa ) activity . lymphoid cells were removed from immunized animals and cultured with specific antigen , keyhole limpet hemocyanin , ovalbumin , or human gamma-globulin . the culture supernatants were then incubated with the monocyte-like cell line wehi-265 to measure mpca or with wehi-265 or resident peritoneal macrophages to measure pa activity . mice were given pertussigen at the time of immunization , and the subsequent generation by lymphocyte supernatants of both of these macrophage activities proved to be greatly enhanced ; the effect of pertussigen was antigen specific . pertussigen thus induces an increase in lymphokine ( s ) production responsible for the in vitro increase in macrophage mpca and pa activity and which may be responsible for some of the potent immune effects of this agent in vivo . 
serologic aspects of igg4 antibodies . ii . igg4 antibodies form small , nonprecipitating immune complexes due to functional monovalency . human igg4 antibodies directed against phospholipase a , the p1 antigen from dermatophagoides pteronyssinus extracts , and cat albumin were found unable to cross-link antigen . previously , it was demonstrated that igg4 antibodies , in contrast to igg1 antibodies , did not cross-link sepharose-bound antigen and antigen added in solution . to eliminate the possibility that this phenomenon was caused by preferential binding of both igg4 fab fragments to the solid-phase-bound antigen , cross-linking of antigen was studied in a fluid-phase system . in this test , incapability of igg4 antibodies to bridge two antigens was also found . as a result of such a phenomenon , it is expected that immune complexes formed by igg4 antibodies will be considerably smaller than complexes formed by igg1 . this was confirmed by analysis of the molecular size profiles of igg1- and igg4-containing immune complexes in sucrose-density gradients . moreover , igg1 was able to precipitate antigen in a radioimmunoprecipitation test , whereas precipitation was not demonstrable by the same amount of igg4 antibodies . even 3 % polyethylene glycol 8 , 000 did not precipitate the small igg4-containing immune complexes efficiently . the antibodies studied were of a high-affinity type , and there was no significant difference in association constants between igg1 and igg4 antibodies . therefore , we were not able to confirm observations reported in the literature that the igg4 subclass is associated with a low-affinity antibody response ; probably , the affinity of the igg4 antibodies was underestimated by other investigators because of the polyethylene glycol precipitation technique used to separate antibody-bound and free antigen . our findings stress the point that igg4 antibodies take a special place in the immune response upon chronic exposure to antigen . 
localization of biologic functions of toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 by use of monoclonal antibodies and cyanogen bromide-generated toxin fragments . monoclonal antibodies ( mab ) against toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 ( tsst-1 ) were generated that block two of the most important biologic activities of tsst-1 , nonspecific t lymphocyte mitogenicity and the suppression of immunoglobulin synthesis . fourteen hybridomas producing antibody against tsst-1 were isolated independently . the culture supernatant and ascitic fluids from each were analyzed to determine the mab isotypes . seven of the mab were igg1 , and the remaining seven were igm ; all the mab had kappa light chains . immunoglobulin was partially purified from hybridoma-generated ascitic fluid by ammonium sulfate precipitation and tested for the ability to block tsst-1-induced mitogenicity and immunosuppression . three mab ( all igg1 ) were shown to block both the toxin-induced mitogenicity and the suppression . none of the mab tested inhibited just one of the two toxin activities . the neutralizing mab were then used in western analysis with previously mapped cyanogen bromide ( cnbr ) -generated toxin fragments to localize the aforementioned biologic functions . the western blot analysis showed that the mitogenic and the suppressive functions of tsst-1 were located on a 14 , 000 dalton internal cnbr fragment . 
passive transfer of leishmania lipopolysaccharide confers parasite survival in macrophages . infection of macrophages by the intracellular protozoan parasite leishmania involves specific attachment to the host membrane , followed by phagocytosis and intracellular survival and growth . two parasite molecules have been implicated in the attachment event : leishmania lipopolysaccharide ( l-lps ) and a glycoprotein ( gp63 ) . this study was designed to clarify the role of l-lps in infection and the stage in the process of infection at which it operates . we have recently identified a leishmania major strain ( lrc-l119 ) which lacks the l-lps molecule and is not infective for hamsters or mice . this parasite was isolated from a gerbil in kenya and was identified phenotypically as l . major by isoenzyme and fatty acid analysis . in this study we have confirmed at the genotype level that lrc-l119 is l . major by analyzing and comparing the organization of cloned dna sequences in the genome of different strains of l . major . here we show that lrc-l119 promastigotes are phagocytosed rapidly by macrophages in vitro , but in contrast to virulent strains of l . major , they are then killed over a period of 18 hr . in addition , we show that transfer of purified l-lps from a virulent clone of l . major ( v121 ) into lrc-l119 promastigotes confers on them the ability to survive in macrophages in vitro . 
effect of cyclosporine a in erythema nodosum leprosum . erythema nodosum leprosum ( enl ) is a reactional state of lepromatous leprosy in which the loss of suppressor cell function , decrease in suppressor cell numbers , and increase of interleukin 2 production are observed . we reasoned that cyclosporine a ( csa ) , by opposing these immune responses , could suppress the enl reaction and restore patients to the quiescent lepromatous state . we tested this hypothesis in vitro by measuring the effect of csa on m . leprae-triggered suppressor cells . in 24 of 25 patients with enl , suppressor cell activity was restored by csa . the target of csa appeared to be macrophages . these findings are significant in that they provide the first evidence for the potential efficacy of csa in the treatment of enl . preliminary clinical trials indicate a beneficial therapeutic effect associated with increased t suppressor cells in lesions . 
characterization of two monoclonal idiotype-binding suppressor t cell factors specific for the antibody response to l-glutamic acid60-l-alanine30-l-tyrosine10 ( gat ) . we have previously identified and described two distinct types of suppressor t cell factors specific for the pfc response to l-glutamic acid60-l-alanine30-l-tyrosine10 ( gat ) or l-glutamic acid50-l-tyrosine50 ( gt ) . both of these factors are antigen-specific and i-j+ . gat-tsf1 is not mhc-restricted and is composed of a single polypeptide chain , whereas gat-tsf2 is mhc-restricted and is composed of two different polypeptide chains . we have not previously found evidence for an obligatory , idiotype-specific suppressor t cell in this suppressor pathway . however , we now report that idiotype-specific suppressor t cells can be elicited by exposing normal spleen cells to gat-tsf1 or gat-tsf2 in the absence of antigen in vitro . these factor ( tsf1 / tsf2 ) -induced cells have been fused with the akr thymoma , bw5147 , and hybridomas were selected for production of suppressor factors that inhibit gat-specific antibody responses in vitro . in this report , we characterize one monoclonal factor from each fusion . neither factor binds gat or the related co-polymer , gt ; both factors have binding sites for gat-specific idiotypes but not for unrelated idiotypes either in the form of antibody immobilized on sepharose or as cell surface determinants expressed by b cell hybridomas . moreover , their reactivities for a panel of monoclonal anti-gat antibodies are overlapping but not identical . both factors are composed of two polypeptide chains , and both chains are required for suppressive activity ; one chain bears the i-j determinant , whereas the other possesses the idiotype-binding activity of the intact molecule . both idiotype-binding factors are restricted by mhc- and igh-linked genes , and transcomplementation is observed in the f1 mice between mhc-congenic and igh-congenic parents . both factors are active late in mishell-dutton cultures . these data support the contention that these two factors are similar but nonidentical members of an anti-idiotypic class of gat-specific suppressor factors . 
the nk-1.1 ( - ) mouse : a model to study differentiation of murine nk cells . the nk-1.1 ( - ) mouse was constructed by weekly injections of monoclonal anti-nk-1.1 antibody from birth through adulthood . spleen cells from these mice have decreased nk-1.1+ cells and null ( thy-1- and b220- ) cells . their splenic nk activity to yac targets was low and was not enhanced by ifn-alpha or ifn-beta . bone marrow ( bm ) of these nk-1.1 ( - ) mice have normal precursors to nk cells : 1 ) nk activity could be generated from nk-1.1 ( - ) bm cells cultured in ril 2 for 5 to 6 days . these cultured bm cells expressed qa-5 , thy-1 , asgm-1 , and nk-1.1 antigens . the precursor cells of these bm cytotoxic cells are nk-1.1- ; 2 ) transfer of bm cells from the nk-1.1 ( - ) mice reconstituted the nk activity of irradiated , nk-depleted recipients . lymphokine-activated killer cells could also be generated from spleens of these nk-1.1 ( - ) mice . therefore , the nk-1.1 ( - ) mice were specifically depleted of mature cytotoxic nk cells , but not the nk-1.1- precursors of nk cells . this mouse model is valuable to study ontogeny and physiologic relevance of nk cells . 
influenza virus infection induces functional alterations in peripheral blood lymphocytes . this report describes alterations in functional responses to lectin-induced stimulation of peripheral blood lymphocytes and in the natural killer cell ( nkc ) activity , of college students , obtained during an outbreak of influenza a / philippines / 2 / 82 ( h3n2 ) virus infection . these results are compared with similar observations in college students with an acute , febrile , noninfluenzal respiratory illness that occurred during the same outbreak . the lymphopenia typical of influenza during acute illness was shown to be due to a reduction in both t and b cells without alteration in the cd4 : cd8 ratio . in addition , phytohemagglutinin and concanavalin a responses were reduced and nkc activity was increased , while pokeweed mitogen reactivity was unaltered at the time of admission to the study . patients with noninfluenzal illness showed early polymorphonuclear leukocytosis and a similar lymphopenia . lymphocyte functions were virtually unchanged during acute illness in noninfluenza patients . the relatively specific alterations in lymphocyte responses to lectin-induced stimulation in influenza patients may indicate that the peripheral t cells are incapable of activation via the cd3 or cd2 activation pathways . in addition , increased nkc activity in the periphery may be reflective of increased nkc activity in the lung . influenza-infected individuals with higher nkc activity at the time of admission to the study also took longer to recover . finally , the early lymphopenia and the later neutropenia in the influenza-infected patient may represent migration of these cells from the circulation to the infected respiratory tract as a consequence of infection . 
anti-thyroglobulin anti-idiotypic antibodies in sera of patients with hashimoto 's thyroiditis and graves ' disease . the objective of this study was to find naturally occurring anti-idiotypic ( anti-id ) antibodies to anti-human thyroglobulin ( anti-htg ) idiotype in sera of patients with autoimmune thyroid disease . sera from patients with hashimoto 's thyroiditis ( ht ) , graves ' disease ( gd ) , rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , and systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) and sera from normal subjects were tested for the presence of anti-id antibodies against mouse anti-htg monoclonal antibodies ( mcab ) in indirect elisa and in indirect solid-phase ria . microtitration plates were coated with six mcab , five of them directed against different epitopes on htg molecule , and then incubated with patients ' sera . the bound antibody was detected with either peroxidase or 125i-labeled anti-human igg . the specific positive reaction was observed in four of 40 patients with ht , in two of 26 patients with gd , in seven of 58 patients with ra , and in none of 20 normal subjects . the detected binding was due to the presence of anti-htg anti-id antibodies and not to tg-anti-tg circulating immune complexes , as the positive sera did not contain htg when resolved on sds-page , nor did they bind to all anti-htg mcab tested . the binding was dose dependent , and titers of anti-id antibodies varied from 1 : 243 to 1 : 2187. the binding could be inhibited up to 50 % by htg , but not by the thyroid microsomal antigen , indicating that some of those anti-id might represent the internal image of the antigen . serum from the patient 3403 , showing the strongest reactivity against mcab a-3 , was chosen for igg purification and f ( ab ' ) 2 fragment isolation . the 3403 f ( ab ' ) 2 fragment , but not the fc fragment , was found to react specifically with four mouse anti-htg mcab but not with the control mouse igg . thus , the obtained results permit the conclusion that anti-htg anti-id antibodies could occur naturally during the course of thyroid autoimmune disorders . 
igg antinuclear antibodies with cross-reactive rheumatoid factor activity . to investigate whether igg antinuclear antibodies have cross-reactive rheumatoid factor activity , monoclonal igg antibodies to dna and sm from autoimmune mrl-lpr / lpr mice were assayed by elisa for binding to igg antigens . of the nine anti-dna and anti-sm monoclonals tested , six showed significant binding to affinity-purified rabbit igg ( rigg ) and human igg ( higg ) . to confirm that cross-reactivities were due to a single antibody , immunoabsorption of a representative polyspecific monoclonal termed c11 ( anti-dna , anti-sm ) on either sepharose-dna or sepharose-rigg resulted in marked loss of activity to the three antigens dna , sm and rigg compared with immunoabsorption on sepharose-bovine serum albumin . the monomolecular nature of the cross-reacting antibody was also suggested by inhibition analysis of c11 ; dna inhibited c11 binding to rigg 64 % , whereas sm inhibited binding to rigg 33 % . aggregated rigg and higg , however , did not inhibit binding of c11 to dna , sm , or solid-phase rigg , probably reflecting the low affinity of this antibody for fluid phase ig . together , these findings suggest that antinuclear autoantibodies of the igg , as well as the igm , class have polyspecific igg binding activity and suggest that igg antinuclear antibodies may emerge from rheumatoid factor responses . 
a syngeneic monoclonal antibody to murine meth-a sarcoma ( hepss-1 ) recognizes heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan ( hs-gag ) : cell density and transformation dependent alteration in cell surface hs-gag defined by hepss-1 . we have isolated a syngeneic monoclonal antibody ( hepss-1 ) reactive to a murine methylcholanthrene-induced fibrosarcoma , meth-a . hepss-1 also bound to a wide variety of established and fresh normal cells derived from not only mice but also other species such as human , monkey , rat , hamster , and chicken . immunoprecipitation of surface iodinated meth-a cell extract with hepss-1 , as well as sepharose 4b gel chromatography of meth-a cell extract and detection of antigens recognized by hepss-1 by a sandwich-type radioimmunoassay revealed that the hepss-1 antigens were composed of several molecular species , with one as large as approximately 10 ( 6 ) daltons . the following evidence indicates that hepss-1 specifically recognizes an epitope present in heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan ( hs-gag ) . first , treatment of meth-a cells with heparitinase or heparinase , but not with chondroitinase abc or hyaluronidase , resulted in the loss of hepss-1 binding . second , hs-gag but not seven other types of gag ( hyaluronic acid , heparin , chondroitin , chondroitin 4-sulfate , chondroitin 6-sulfate , dermatan sulfate , and keratan sulfate ) inhibited hepss-1 binding to meth-a cells . third , hepss-1 bound with hs-gag but not with the seven other types of gag . from the binding analysis of hepss-1 to various modified hs-gag and whale omega-heparin , it is additionally suggested that hepss-1 recognizes an epitope closely related to o-sulfated and n-acetylated glucosamine . we found that nih 3t3 cells expressed more hepss-1 epitopes at a low cell density than at confluency and in g2 + m than in g1 , whereas nih 3t3 cells transformed with kirsten-ras oncogene or sv-40 expressed high levels of hepss-1 epitopes and ceased to show the density-dependent change in the amount of hepss-1 epitopes . these observations were also reproduced by using nih 3t3 cells transformed with a temperature sensitive kirsten murine sarcoma virus maintained at permissive and non-permissive temperatures . thus hepss-1 is a first monoclonal antibody to hs-gag and seems to be useful to elucidate changes in cell surface hs-gag in normal cell growth and cell transformation . 
bombesin in human and guinea pig alveolar macrophages . bombesin found in neuroepithelial bodies and oat cell carcinoma of the lung , is thought to play an important role in normally developing and malignant lung . monocytes-macrophages and human small cell lung carcinoma cells share several features , including macrophage-specific surface markers and the expression of functional receptors for bombesin-like neuropeptides and growth factors . because small cell lung carcinoma cells synthesize immunoreactive bombesin , we investigated the possibility that alveolar macrophages also contain bombesin , a plausible hypothesis considering the many reports of neuropeptide production by immune cells and cells of bone marrow origin . adherent human peripheral blood mononuclear cells as well as human and guinea pig alveolar macrophages were found to contain bombesin . the peptide was detected by radioimmunoassay , immunohistochemistry , high-pressure liquid chromatography with the use of different monospecific antibodies . 
igm antibodies recognizing carbohydrate epitopes shared between schistosomula and miracidia of schistosoma mansoni that block in vitro killing . a series of monoclonal antibodies ( mab ) was raised in mice against schistosoma mansoni , which recognized a carbohydrate determinant on a major mr greater than 200 , 000 schistosomulum surface antigen . these mab cross-reacted with the surface of cercariae and miracidia and with schistosomula of s . haematobium and s . bovis . other mab were generated that only recognized a mr 20 , 000 schistosomulum surface antigen ; they did not cross-react with eggs or miracidia and were species specific . the anti-mr 20 , 000 mab of the igg1 isotype exhibited high levels of complement-dependent cytotoxicity to schistosomula in vitro . igm mab that recognized carbohydrate epitopes of the mr greater than 200 , 000 surface antigen blocked the lethal activity of the anti-mr 20 , 000 mab . the igm anti-mr greater than 200 , 000 mab also reduced complement-dependent cytotoxicity of serum from mice vaccinated with irradiated cercariae . 
chromosomal location of the genes encoding complement components c5 and factor h in the mouse . complementary dna probes corresponding to the factor h and c5 polypeptides have been used to determine the chromosomal localizations of these two complement components . both probes revealed complex and polymorphic arrays of dna fragments in southern blot analysis of mouse genomic dna . following the distribution of these bands in panels of somatic cell hybrids carrying various combinations of mouse chromosomes on a constant rat or chinese hamster background allowed the localization of the c5-associated fragments to proximal chromosome 2 and the localization of the factor h-associated fragments to chromosome 1 or chromosome 3. following the inheritance of dna restriction fragment-length polymorphisms revealed by the probes in recombinant inbred mouse strains allowed the factor h-associated fragments to be mapped to sas-1 on chromosome 1 , and the c5-associated fragments to be mapped to hc . analysis of three-point crosses , in turn , placed the latter locus 19 cm distal to sd on chromosome 2. we have designated the two loci cfh and c5 , respectively . this genetic analysis raises the possibility that c5 and factor h are both encoded by complex loci composed of distinct structural and regulatory genes . 
differential interaction of the c3b / c4b receptor and mhc class i with the cytoskeleton of human neutrophils . as measured by fluorescence microscopy and radioligand binding , c3b / c4b receptors ( cr1 ) became attached to the detergent-insoluble cytoskeleton of human neutrophils when receptors were cross-linked by affinity-purified polyclonal f ( ab ' ) 2 anti-cr1 , dimeric c3b , or fab monoclonal anti-cr1 followed by f ( ab ' ) 2 goat anti-mouse f ( ab ' ) 2. cr1 on neutrophils bearing monovalent anti-cr1 was not attached to the cytoskeleton . in contrast , cross-linked cr1 on erythrocytes and cross-linked mhc class i on neutrophils were not cytoskeleton associated . a possible role for filamentous actin ( f-actin ) in the binding of cross-linked cr1 to neutrophil cytoskeleton was suggested by three observations . when neutrophils were differentially extracted with either low salt-detergent buffer or high salt-detergent buffer , stained with fitc-phalloidin , and examined by fluorescent flow cytometry , the residual cytoskeletons generated with the former buffer were shown to contain polymerized f-actin , whereas cytoskeletons generated with the latter buffer were found to be depleted of f-actin . in parallel experiments , high salt-detergent buffer was also found to release cross-linked cr1 from neutrophils . second , depolymerization of f-actin by dnase i released half of the cytoskeletal-associated cross-linked cr1 . third , immunoadsorbed neutrophil cr1 , but not mhc class i or erythrocyte cr1 , specifically bound soluble 125i-actin . in addition , fc receptor and cr3 , other phagocytic membrane proteins of neutrophils , specifically bound 125i-actin . these data demonstrate that cr1 cross-linked on neutrophils becomes associated with detergent-insoluble cytoskeleton and that this interaction is mediated either directly or indirectly by actin . 
molecular mapping of murine i region recombinants . ii . crossing over in the e beta gene is restricted to a 4.5 kb stretch of dna that excludes the beta 1 exon . the crossing over in five murine i-region recombinants ( is / ik ) was studied by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis after southern blot hybridization by using i-region-specific probes . these recombinants included three recently developed strains , replaced-dns r1 , replaced-dns r11 , and replaced-dns r12 ; and two strains b10.s ( 9r ) and replaced-dns t derived earlier . although these recombinants were reciprocal in haplotype orientation to the three recombinants we reported recently , these too crossed over within the same 7 kb stretch of dna in the e beta gene . this 7 kb stretch of dna included the 3 ' half of the first intron , the beta 1 exon , the second intron , and the beta 2 exon . a comparison of the cdna sequences of the two parental e beta alleles revealed that although the beta 2 exons were identical , there were several nucleotide differences between the two beta 1 exons . this allowed us to determine the parental origin of the beta 1 exon in the recombinants at the level of transcription by using s1 nuclease mapping . thus we were able to show that in each case the 3 ' portion of the first intron and the beta 1 exon were upstream from the site of crossover . all eight recombinants involving the k and s haplotypes now can be mapped within a 4.5 kb stretch of dna , which includes only the beta 1-beta 2 intron and the beta 2 exon of the e beta gene . these findings imply that the i-e molecules expressed in these recombinants will probably have conserved sequences and therefore will exhibit identical i-e-restricted immune responses , despite the fact that crossing over could have occurred at different sites within the beta 1-beta 2 intron . 
hla-linked nonresponsiveness to cryptomeria japonica pollen antigen . i . nonresponsiveness is mediated by antigen-specific suppressor t cell . the objective of this study was to elucidate the cellular mechanism of ige nonresponse to the cryptomeria japonica ( japanese cedar ) pollen antigen ( cpag ) , which was shown in our previous study to be hla-linked ( 1 ) . we established an assay system for the measurement of small amounts of anti-cpag ige antibody , both in an antigen-specific and isotype-specific manner , and a culture system to induce antigen-driven ige antibody synthesis in vitro . by using these methods , we clarified that the function of the hla-dr molecule in the cpag-driven ige response is similar to that of i-a or i-e molecule in mice , namely the product of immune response genes ( ir-genes ) , because anti-hla-dr monoclonal antibody blocked the response , and the interaction between monocyte and monocyte-depleted peripheral blood lymphocytes ( pbl ) to respond to cpag was restricted by hla-dr . furthermore , pbl from nonresponders revealed a specific ige response to cpag when the leu-2+3- t cell fraction was depleted , thereby suggesting that even nonresponders have leu-2-3+ t cell and b cell clones specific for cpag , and they apparently show no response due to the presence of cpag-specific leu-2+3- suppressor t cells . this suppressor t cell fraction abolished the ige response of the autologous b + monocyte + leu-2-3+ t cell in a cpag-specific manner . the current cellular analysis together with our previous genetic analysis strongly suggest that the hla-linked ige nonresponse to cpag is mediated by cpag-specific suppressor t cells . the hla-linked gene controlling the nonresponsiveness to cpag is thus designated as the immune suppression gene for cpag ( is-cpag ) . mapping of is-cpag within hla-dq subregion is discussed . 
effect of surgical stress on murine natural killer cell cytotoxicity . natural killer cell cytotoxicity ( nkcc ) against tumors may be important in preventing in vivo solid tumor dissemination . multiple animal models demonstrate increased rates of tumor dissemination after surgical stress ; previously , we have observed that surgical stress impairs murine nkcc . because of the importance of surgery in the control of solid tumors , it appeared valuable to examine the mechanism underlying surgical stress impairment of nkcc . the results of this study demonstrate that postsurgical suppression of nkcc begins as early as 2 hr after murine hind limb amputation , reaches nadir at 4 days , and does not recover to control level until postoperative day 12. anesthetic treatment alone does not cause comparable nkcc suppression . the suppression of nkcc accompanied changes in both splenic size and morphology . the immune suppression was observed in multiple compartments including peripheral blood , bone marrow , and spleen . mixing experiments demonstrated that surgical stress per se generated a suppressor cell population affecting nkcc . the observed suppression apparently required cell-to-cell contact , because supernatants from 4 and 18 hr cultures of suppressor cells did not cause suppression . the observed suppression was prevented by perioperative treatment with the pyrimidinone analog 2-amino-5-bromo-6-phenyl-4-pyrimidinol . these preclinical observations point to the future prospect of nk-specific perioperative immunotherapy that may help prevent possible tumor dissemination from occurring at the time of surgery . 
adjuvant effects of nonionic block polymer surfactants on liposome-induced humoral immune response . the ability of several surface-active agents to stimulate the humoral immune response in mice against haptenated liposomes was tested . the surfactants were block copolymers of hydrophilic polyoxyethylene ( poe ) and hydrophobic polyoxypropylene ( pop ) that differed in m.w. , percentage of poe , and mode of linkage of pop to poe . the liposomes were haptenated with tripeptide-enlarged dinitrophenyl coupled to phosphatidylethanolamine , which was incorporated into the liposomal membrane . additional injection of mice with surfactant stimulated serum hemagglutination titers and splenic plaque-forming cell ( pfc ) numbers to varying extents . block polymers with pop chains flanking a poe center , as well as polymers with poe chains flanking a pop center , displayed high adjuvant activity . these block polymers stimulated the antibody response in a dose-dependent manner . they stimulated the antibody response with both high and low antigen doses . furthermore , the addition of one of these adjuvants ( 25r1 ) reduced the amount of carrier lipid required in the liposome in order to obtain an optimal antibody response . the surfactants , which displayed high adjuvant activity , did not interfere with liposome stability as measured with a liposome lysis assay . moreover , in vitro preincubation of liposomes with a block polymer did not affect their immunogenicity . optimal adjuvant activity was observed when both adjuvant and liposomes were administered by the same route . simultaneous injection of both components , however , is not a prerequisite . conclusively , it can be stated that nonionic block polymer surfactants are potent adjuvants for stimulation of the antibody response against haptenated liposomes . 
recovery of human neutrophils from complement attack : removal of the membrane attack complex by endocytosis and exocytosis . nucleated cells can resist lysis by and recover from complement attack even after formation of the potentially cytolytic membrane attack complex on the cell surface . we have found that human neutrophils resist complement lysis by the physical removal of membrane attack complexes by both endocytic and exocytic process . the latter mechanism predominates , vesiculation being detectable within 60 sec of initiating the complement cascade . sixty-five percent of the formed complexes are removed on plasma membrane vesicles , although only 2 % of the cell surface is lost . ultrastructural examination revealed that these vesicles were covered with ring-like " classical " complement lesions . analysis of these vesicles by gel electrophoresis indicated that c9 was present exclusively in the form of a sodium dodecyl sulfate-resistant , high m.w. complex . in contrast , the 35 % of c9 that remained associated with the cells was found to be inaccessible to a c9-specific monoclonal antibody , and was partly degraded , suggesting internalization of the membrane attack complex and proteolysis of some c9 molecules . the molar ratio of c9 to c8 was 12 to 1 on shed vesicles and on recovered cells . 
cellular distribution of complement receptor type 4 ( cr4 ) : expression on human platelets . neutrophils have been shown to express a receptor for c3dg that is distinct from cr2 and is termed complement receptor type 4 ( cr4 ) . in the present study , other peripheral blood cell types were examined by indirect immunofluorescence and flow cytometry for the presence of c3dg binding activity . specific uptake of c3dg occurred with neutrophils , platelets , and b lymphocytes , but not with eosinophils or t lymphocytes . monocytes , contained within a mixed cell population of peripheral blood mononuclear cells and platelets , also bound c3dg , whereas purified monocytes did not . binding of 125i-labeled glutaraldehyde-cross-linked c3dg to platelets was saturable , with an average of 1940 c3dg molecules bound per platelet at saturation ( n = 8 ) , ranging in number from 660 to 3930 molecules bound . activation of platelets with thrombin did not consistently cause an increase in the expression of cr4 sites . 125i-c3dg binding to platelets was competitively inhibited equally well by unlabeled c3dg and ic3b , and approximately fourfold less well by c3b . the addition of platelets to elutriated monocytes generated c3dg binding activity on these cells by the formation of platelet-monocyte complexes . thus , the cr4 on platelets accounted for the c3dg binding activity initially observed with partially purified monocytes . the adherent property of platelets may enable them to confer on certain other cell types the ability to localize c3dg-coated immune complexes or particles . 
lipoxin a-induced inhibition of human natural killer cell cytotoxicity : studies on stereospecificity of inhibition and mode of action . human leukocyte-derived lipoxin a ( lxa ; 5s , -6r , 15s-trihydroxy-7 , 9 , 13-trans-11-cis-eicosatetraenoic acid ) inhibits the cytotoxic activity of human natural killer ( nk ) cells . lxa and three of its isomers were prepared by total organic synthesis and assayed for activity with human nk cells . dose-response studies showed that biologically derived lxa and synthetic lxa were equally effective in inhibiting nk cell cytotoxicity . 6s-lxa , with its 6s-oh group in an ( s ) configuration , proved to be approximately half as potent as lxa . in contrast , 6s-11-trans-lxa and 11-trans-lxa displayed virtually no inhibitory activities . the methyl esters of both lxa and 6s-lxa proved to be more potent than their corresponding free acids . thus , lxa inhibition of nk cells displays clear-cut stereochemistry . in the absence of putative inhibitors , nk cells bind to their targets to form conjugates . this event is followed by polarization of the nk golgi apparatus , which moves towards the plasma membrane that is in contact with the target cell . however , in the presence of either the methyl ester or free acid of lxa , the golgi apparati of nk cells bound to their targets were randomly oriented . in contrast , neither 6s-11-trans-lxa nor the potent nk inhibitor prostaglandin e2 affected the polarization . furthermore , although prostaglandin e2 resulted in a decrease in nk-target cell binding efficiency , lxa and its isomers failed to affect conjugate formation . together these results indicate that lxa-induced inhibition of nk cytotoxicity does not act on nk cell binding but may block cytotoxicity by disrupting " signals " involved in the specific orientation of the golgi . thus , this latter event may appear to be important in cytotoxicity . 
infectivity of leishmania braziliensis promastigotes is dependent on the increasing expression of a 65 , 000-dalton surface antigen . sequential development of leishmania braziliensis promastigotes from a noninfective to an infective stage was demonstrated . the generation of infective forms was related to their growth cycle and restricted to stationary stage organisms . using immunofluorescence techniques , we have noticed that the binding of a monoclonal antibody ( mab ) against l . braziliensis ( vd5 / 25 ) increased progressively as the promastigotes developed in culture and was maximal with the infective forms . this antigenic differentiation was not detected with an anti-l . braziliensis polyclonal rabbit antiserum , suggesting that only a few epitopes , including that recognized by vd5 / 25 , have their expression effectively increased on the surface of infective promastigotes . immunoprecipitation of lysates of surface-iodinated l . braziliensis promastigotes with this mab revealed two proteins of apparent 65 , 000 and 50 , 000 mr , the 50 , 000 mr protein probably representing the unreduced form of the major surface glycoprotein described in several species of leishmania ( gp65 ) . the increasing expression of this epitope was not found with l . chagasi promastigotes , but seems to occur with the parasites from the l . mexicana complex . intracellular survival of l . braziliensis was completely inhibited when the infective promastigotes were treated with vd5 / 25. it appears , therefore , that the increasing expression of gp65 on the promastigote surface represents an essential mechanism of leishmania survival in the macrophage . 
a complement receptor locus : genes encoding c3b / c4b receptor and c3d / epstein-barr virus receptor map to 1q32 . the alternative or classical pathways for complement system component c3 may be triggered by microorganisms and antigen-antibody complexes . in particular , an activated fragment of c3 , c3b , covalently attaches to microorganisms or antigen-antibody complexes , which in turn bind to the c3b receptor , also known as complement receptor 1. the genes encoding the proteins that constitute the c3-activating enzymes have been cloned and mapped to a " complement activation " locus in the major histocompatibility complex , and we demonstrate in this study such a locus on the long arm of chromosome 1 at band 1q32 . 
trichophyton mentagrophytes spores differ from mycelia in their ability to induce pustules and activate complement . to determine whether the morphology of dermatophytes plays a role in the clinical manifestation of dermatophytosis , we isolated spores and mycelia from colonies of killed trichophyton mentagrophytes and tested their ability to induce gross and microscopic cutaneous changes when applied to guinea pig skin . the skin of normal guinea pigs failed to develop any cutaneous changes after inoculation with either dead spores or mycelia . in contrast , guinea pigs that had recovered from a t . mentagrophytes infection reacted to topically applied spores by producing pustules but failed to develop pustules either grossly or microscopically when inoculated with mycelia . because differences in the activation of c ' and the subsequent generation of the polymorphonuclear leukocyte ( pmn ) chemoattractant , c5a , might account for our in vivo findings , we measured the amount of c5a activated in vitro when serum was incubated with equivalent amounts of spores or mycelia . spores consistently activated more c ' to c5a than mycelia , although each could activate serum c ' . the results support previous studies that show a direct correlation between the clinical manifestations of a dermatophytic infection and the development of immunity against the dermatophyte . furthermore , the data suggest that a dermatophyte 's predominant morphology during an infection may play a critical role in producing pustules by activating c ' and chemoattracting pmns into the fungus-laden stratum corneum . 
anhidrosis and absence of sweat glands in mice hemizygous for the tabby gene : supportive evidence for the hypothesis of homology between tabby and human anhidrotic ( hypohidrotic ) ectodermal dysplasia ( christ-siemens-touraine syndrome ) . i have suggested that the x-linked gene tabby ( ta ) and its autosomal mimics in the mouse may be homologous with the genes for sex-linked anhidrotic ( hypohidrotic ) ectodermal dysplasia ( christ-siemens-touraine syndrome , cst ) and its apparent autosomal mimics in the human . in the present study , i examined whether anhidrosis , a cardinal feature of cst , is present in the putative mouse sex-linked model , tabby . the results demonstrate that whereas normal mice perspire on the volar and plantar surfaces of their paws , hemizygous ta / y male mice show anhidrosis and absence of sweat glands , as do human hemizygous male sufferers of cst . this result is strongly supportive of the hypothesis that ta is homologous to the gene for cst . 
relative responsiveness of cultured human epidermal melanocytes and melanoma cells to selected mitogens . early cellular events in the malignant transformation of melanocytes to melanoma are virtually unknown . in vitro investigation of this phenomenon has been hampered by the fastidious nature of the human epidermal melanocyte , which has proven difficult to cultivate . the present study compares responsiveness of cultured human epidermal melanocytes and established melanoma cell lines to serum , cholera toxin , and melanocyte growth factor ( mgf ) , three established melanocyte mitogens . four of four established human melanoma lines were substantially stimulated by fetal bovine serum , as were newborn foreskin-derived epidermal melanocytes . in contrast , none of the four melanoma lines responded to hypothalamic preparations containing mgf that consistently produced an approximately 30-fold increase in newborn melanocyte cell yield over a 2-week period . cholera toxin , required for successful establishment of primary melanocyte cultures , had small and variable effects on the melanoma lines , with slight stimulation in one case , moderate inhibition in another , and essentially no effect in two others . these data suggest that transformation of epidermal melanocytes to melanoma often involves at least one phenotypic change resulting in escape from mgf regulation and another associated with insensitivity to cyclic amp modulation ; while at least some of the pathways conferring serum dependence are unaltered . improved culture systems for the human epidermal melanocyte should facilitate further studies into the mechanism of its malignant conversion and may provide useful insights for the prevention and treatment of human melanoma . 
free radical reduction by thioredoxin reductase at the surface of normal and vitiliginous human keratinocytes . cell cultures of human keratinocytes contain membrane-associated thioredoxin reductase that is extremely active in reducing radicals on the outer plasma membrane . this enzyme activity was confirmed by its purification from cultures of stratified human keratinocytes by affinity column chromatography . the enzyme was assayed both in vivo and in vitro using a spin-labeled quaternary ammonium compound as the substrate , under saturating conditions in free radical substrate . specific activities were determined by monitoring the sequential decrease in the amplitude of the electron spin resonance signal per unit of cell protein . the following properties were found : cultures of adult stratified cells have approximately twice the thioredoxin reductase activity of neonatal cells . the enzyme is inhibited by thioprotein inhibitors ( i.e. , parachloromecuribenzoate and dinitrochlorobenzene ) . the activity is regulated by calcium concentrations of the cell culture medium . stratified keratinocytes are half as active in medium containing 2 mm ca++ compared with 0.1 mm ca++ concentration . product inhibition of the enzyme occurs with oxidized coenzyme nadp+ ( i.e. , 87 % inhibition of enzyme activity over 30 min ) . the enzyme is heat stable at temperatures of 70 degrees c for 10 min . it is inactivated at 75 degrees c . a comparative study of thioredoxin reductase activity on stratified differentiated and undifferentiated rapidly growing cells was performed . also , enzyme activity was quantitated for cultured keratinocytes isolated from vitiliginous and normal skin of the same donor . the results of this study , and the connection between this enzyme activity and uv-generated free radicals are reconciled in terms of the mechanism of action and metabolic activity of thioredoxin reductase . 
dilutional effect of increased sebaceous gland activity on the proportion of linoleic acid in sebaceous wax esters and in epidermal acylceramides . sebaceous wax esters and epidermal acylceramides were isolated from skin surface lipid obtained from children and from young adults . fatty acid methyl esters ( fame ) were prepared from the esterified fatty acids of these lipid classes and analyzed to ascertain the proportions of methyl linoleate ( 18 : 2 delta 9 , 12 ) , methyl sebaleate ( 18 : 2 delta 5 , 8 ) , and methyl sapienate ( 16 : 1 delta 6 ) . on the same subjects , 2 measures of sebum secretion rate were obtained , namely the sustainable wax ester secretion rate ( wesr ) on the forehead and the ratio of wax esters / ( cholesterol + cholesterol esters ) [ we / ( ch + ce ) ] in the surface lipid . the proportions of methyl linoleate in fame from the wax esters decreased , and the proportions of methyl sebaleate increased , with increased rates of sebum secretion . for both methyl linoleate and methyl sebaleate , a better correlation was obtained when the ratio of we / ( ch + ce ) was used as a measure of sebum secretion rather than the wesr . the proportions of methyl linoleate in the fame from the acylceramides were also inversely related to ratios of we / ( ch + ce ) . in acylceramides , linoleate was replaced by sapienate , a major fatty acid of human sebum . it appears , therefore , that sebum fatty acid composition may change with changes in sebaceous gland activity , and that sebum fatty acids can enter the epidermis and be incorporated into epidermal lipids . 
selective binding of colloidal gold-protein conjugates to epidermal phosphorus-rich keratohyaline granules and cornified cells . colloidal gold solutions conjugated with staphylococcal protein a ( spa ) are widely used in high-resolution immunocytochemical studies to visualize antibodies bound at antigenic sites . here we report that colloidal gold solutions conjugated with spa , bovine serum albumin ( bsa ) , or gelatin bind selectively to structures in glutaraldehyde-fixed , plastic-embedded epidermis of rabbit , mouse , and human . two types of keratohyaline granules are present in epidermis , a phosphorus-rich ( pr ) and a sulphur-rich ( sr ) type . the pr keratohyaline granules were strongly labeled with gold particles , whereas sr keratohyaline granules or other structures in the living cells of epidermis were unlabeled . the pr keratohyaline granules are assumed to be precursors of the matrix protein of cornified cells , and intense gold labeling occurred over the lower layer of cornified cells ( i.e. , stratum lucidum ) . more superficial cornified cells were weakly labeled or unlabeled . the gold labeling pattern was identical whether spa , bsa , or gelatin was used to stabilize the colloidal gold solution . the mechanism of binding of protein-conjugated gold to pr keratohyaline granules and matrix protein of cornified cells is not clear . it is speculated that the charged gold particles are not completely coated by the stabilizing protein , allowing for an electrostatic interaction with charged proteins in sections of cells . 
variations in lipids in different layers of porcine epidermis . frozen cryosections , 8 microns thick , were cut parallel to the surface of porcine skin so as to provide separate samples representing various epidermal layers . these samples were dried , extracted with chloroform-methanol mixtures , and the lipids chromatographed on silica gel plates in different solvent systems . after spraying with sulfuric acid and charring , lipids were quantified using a scanning densitometer . it was thus possible to determine lipid concentrations in 12 consecutive epidermal layers , extending 96 microns into the skin . the phospholipids that were characterized all decreased in concentration toward the surface , whereas the neutral lipids and ceramides all increased . glucosylceramide and acylglucosylceramide reached a peak concentration in the stratum granulosum and then decreased in the surface layers . cholesterol sulfate reached a maximum concentration in the deeper stratum corneum and then abruptly decreased in the surface layer . these changes in patterns of lipid concentration are consistent with current theories regarding the formation of a water barrier in the stratum corneum that is composed mainly of neutral lipids , and with a possible function of cholesterol sulfate in cellular adhesion in the stratum corneum . 
spin labeling study on membrane fluidity of epidermal cell ( cow snout epidermis ) . cow snout epidermal cells digested by 0.25 % trypsin were separated into three regions of keratinocytes by percoll density gradient centrifugation . the membrane fluidity of keratinocytes in each region was measured by electron spin resonance using 5-doxyl stearic acid ( 5-dsa ) as a labeling agent . the order parameter ( s ) showed higher values as the depth of the epidermis decreased : lower region of epidermis , 0.632 ; upper region , 0.645 ; and horny cells , 0.680 . these data indicated that membrane fluidity of epidermal cells decreased as cells approached the surface . 
phorbol ester serves as a coepibolin in the spreading of primary guinea pig epidermal cells . in earlier studies , it was shown that the human plasma-spreading glycoprotein , epibolin ( the 65 kd species of serum-spreading factor or vitronectin ) , requires a second plasma component , termed coepibolin , in order to support maximal dissociated epidermal cell spreading in tissue culture . whereas epibolin alone in defined medium supports some cell spreading , the purified plasma coepibolin preparations do not effect spreading in the absence of epibolin . although not yet entirely purified , coepibolin associates with some plasma fractions but not with others ; it is certainly not a property of all proteins , e.g. , while bovine serum albumin ( bsa ) has coepibolin activity , ovalbumin does not . the data presented here show that the phorbol ester , 12-tetra-decanoyl-1-phorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) can act as a potent coepibolin and support maximal spreading over a concentration range of 10-100 ng / ml . in the absence of epibolin tpa does not stimulate the spreading of epidermal cells when given alone or in the presence of bsa or ovalbumin . coepibolin activity appears to associate with tumor-promoting activity in that the phorbol derivative , phorbol-12 , 13-didecanoate , shows coepibolin activity , while its inactive non-tumor-promoting isomer , phorbol-4 alpha-phorbol-12 , 13-didecanoate , does not . these data suggest that the proteinaceous plasma-derived cofactor acts in a fashion similar to tpa and that this as yet unexplained mechanism of tpa action is important to the full expression of epibolin and to the early phase of epidermal cell spreading . 
selective recovery of deranged water-holding properties by stratum corneum lipids . selective removal of stratum corneum lipids following applications of acetone / ether to the human forearm for extremely prolonged periods of 5-20 min induced an enduring ( more than 4 days ) , chapped and scaly appearance of the skin which was accompanied by a significant decrease in the water-holding properties of the stratum corneum . in order to further elucidate the significance of lipids in the water-holding properties , lipids , which were extracted as sebaceous-rich lipids ( sl ) for the first 10-min acetone / ether treatment and as stratum corneum lipids ( scl ) for the additional 30-min treatment , were topically applied daily on lipid-depleted forearm skin which had been pretreated with acetone / ether for 40 min . two daily applications of the scl which were solubilized in squalane containing 1 % alpha-monomethyl heptadecyl glyceryl ether ( ge ) caused a significant increase of conductance , accompanied by a marked improvement in the level of scaling as compared with nontreatment or ge / squalane base , whereas the sl in the ge / squalane base did not exhibit any significant recovery in either conductance value or scaling . to clarify which components of the scl are primarily responsible for the observed recovery of the water-holding properties , chromatographically separated fractions of the scl were also topically applied in the same manner for 2 successive days . out of the following separated fractions : cholesterol , cholesterol ester , free fatty acid , glycolipids , and ceramide , 2 daily topical applications of ceramide fraction induced a significant and the highest increase in the conductance value as compared with ge / squalane base . furthermore , glycolipids and cholesterol fractions also exhibited a significant recovery when compared with no application at all . in contrast , free fatty acid and cholesterol ester fractions did not indicate any significant increase in the conductance value . these findings strengthen the hypothesis that structural lipids present in the intercellular spaces of the stratum corneum , especially ceramide , play a critical role in the water-holding properties of the stratum corneum . 
rapid isolation in large numbers of intact , viable , individual hair follicles from skin : biochemical and ultrastructural characterization . a rapid , novel method is described by which large numbers of intact , viable , individual hair follicles may be isolated from rat skin . follicles are freed from the surrounding connective tissue by shearing , which is effected by repeated cutting with a loosely fitting pair of scissors , and collected individually under liquid using gentle aspiration . ultrastructural analysis indicates that the follicles are sheared away from the surrounding dermis in the region of the connective tissue capsule which encircles the hair . the follicles appear viable by light and electron microscopy and , within 2 h of isolation , retain the capacity to incorporate [ 3h ] thymidine into dna and [ 35s ] methionine into proteins as judged by autoradiography . a histologic comparison indicates that the structural integrity of follicles isolated by this new method is significantly superior to those plucked from the animal at the same time . the method affords the isolation of large numbers of hair follicles , without resort to enzyme treatments , suitable for biologic studies in the absence of other skin appendages and dermis . 
ultraviolet-b radiation suppresses mast cell degranulation induced by compound 48 / 80. this study was designed to investigate the effect of middle-wave ultraviolet ( uvb ) radiation on mast cell functions using mouse ear skin as an in vivo model . groups of uvb-irradiated balb / c mice were given an intradermal injection of the mast cell degranulator compound 48 / 80 into ears at various time intervals ( 30 min-7 days ) after a single exposure to a bank of fluorescent sunlamp tubes ( 10-100 mj / cm2 ) . both the compound-evoked ear swelling response ( esr ) and mast cell degranulation were significantly suppressed by preexposure to uvb ( 25-100 mj / cm2 ) after 0 ( 30 min ) to 3 days postirradiation , with a subsequent recovery by day 7. no such effects were observed in mice irradiated with 10 mj / cm2 . the esr induced by 5-hydroxytryptamine was not significantly affected by uvb radiation during the experimental period . while within this dose range uv radiation itself caused neither loss of mast cell counts nor a measurable degree of degranulation in ear skin , exposure to larger amounts of uv energy ( 200-500 mj / cm2 ) produced tremendous ear swelling with histologic features of mast cell degranulation in an early phase of inflammation . the results suggest that uvb radiation exerts a dual effect on mast cells and that administration of smaller amounts of uvb may alter the mast cell / vasoactive amine system , suppressing ear swelling in response to the degranulator . vascular reactivities to vasoactive amines were not affected by uvb irradiation . 
formation of epidermal and dermal merkel cells during human fetal skin development . the origin of merkel cells is still a matter of debate , specifically the question of whether they are derived from epithelial cells of the epidermis or from immigrated neural crest cells . as an argument for the latter hypothesis the occurrence of dermal , nerve-associated merkel cells in human fetal skin has often been mentioned . therefore , we analyzed the distribution of merkel cells in epidermis and dermis of plantar skin of human embryos and fetuses , ranging in gestational age between 7 and 17 weeks . merkel cells were identified by immunocytochemistry on frozen sections using antibodies against simple epithelium-type cytokeratins and by electron microscopy . in the 17-week-old fetus , 17 % of the total cutaneous ( epidermal and dermal ) merkel cells were located in the upper dermal compartment , whereas in the 14-week-old fetus only 3.9 % of the merkel cells were dermal , including some cells that seemed to be in the process of traversing the dermal-epidermal junction . thirteen-week-old fetuses showed even fewer dermal merkel cells . twelve-week-old fetuses exhibited 660 epidermal merkel cells per 100 mm total section length , but none in the upper or deep dermis . in 7- to 9-week embryos , no merkel cells were recognized . however , at this stage , but not in later stages , the basal cells of the plantar epidermis expressed certain simple epithelium-type cytokeratin polypeptides . these results speak against an invasion of merkel cells or putative neural crest-derived precursor cells into the epidermis via a dermal passage . they suggest that in plantar skin merkel cells arise , between weeks 8-12 , from precursor stages of epithelial cells of the early fetal epidermis which still express simple epithelium-type cytokeratins . the results further suggest that in subsequent stages of skin development some epidermal merkel cells detach from the epithelium and migrate into the upper dermis where some of them may associate with small nerves . 
type iii collagen aminopropeptide levels in serum of patients with progressive systemic scleroderma . sera from 101 patients with progressive systemic scleroderma were analyzed for circulating aminopropeptides of type iii collagen using a radioimmunoassay which measures the intact and degraded forms ( fab assay ) . about 41 % of the patients were found to have values above the normal range . a good correlation was observed between elevated levels of aminopropeptides and the degree of involvement of the skin and internal organs in the patients . most patients ( 89 % ) with an active progression of the disease but not those in a stationary phase showed increased serum levels of aminopropeptides . treatment with corticosteroids apparently normalized the levels of aminopropeptides . only minor changes were observed with an antibody-based radioimmunoassay which measures primarily the intact form of the aminopropeptide . 
expression of blood group antigens by cultured epidermal cells [ letter ] 
new perspectives on a subclinical form of visceral leishmaniasis . during an epidemiological study of visceral leishmaniasis in an endemic region of brazil , new perspectives emerged on a subclinical form of the disease . a group of 86 children with antibody to leishmania were identified . none of these children had a history of leishmaniasis . the children were segregated into four groups : one group remained asymptomatic ( n = 20 ) , whereas another developed classic kala-azar within weeks of the index serology ( n = 15 ) . the remaining 51 patients initially had subclinical disease ; 13 ( 25 % ) of these patients progressed to classic kala-azar ( mean , five months ) . the others ( 75 % ) resolved their illness after a prolonged period ( mean , 35 months ) . the initial illness in the subclinical group was characterized by hepatomegaly , frequent splenomegaly , intermittent cough , diarrhea , and low-grade fever . malaise and poor weight gain were common . giemsa-stained smears and cultures of bone marrow aspirates were usually negative for leishmania in the absence of symptoms of classic kala-azar . 
detection of antibodies to muramyl dipeptide , the adjuvant moiety of streptococcal cell wall , in patients with rheumatic fever . the presence of antibodies to muramyl dipeptide ( mdp ) , an adjuvant structure of streptococcal peptidoglycan , was investigated in patients with acute rheumatic fever ( arf ) . the detection of these antibodies was done by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with a synthetic multivalent mdp conjugate as an antigen . sera from 33 of 54 children with arf had detectable levels of antibodies to mdp at the time of diagnosis . such antibodies could only be detected in sera from two of 52 healthy children and one of 21 children with acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis . the specificity of the antibodies to mdp was demonstrated by inhibition , with free mdp , of binding of the sera to the mdp conjugate . the possible use of these antibodies in the diagnosis of arf and in screening for safe synthetic muramyl peptides in immunization of humans is discussed . 
single-serum radial hemolysis to detect recent rubella virus infection . in the radial hemolysis test for rubella virus-specific antibodies , sera obtained shortly after primary rubella produce a characteristically altered hemolysis zone , termed soft hemolysis . the occurrence of soft hemolysis was analyzed statistically in 6 , 723 sera . the specificity of soft hemolysis for infection with rubella virus was 99.0 % . its sensitivity in primary infections was 97.3 % , and the predictive value for rubella serodiagnosis ( increase in igg level or detectable igm ) was 91.2 % . the temporal association of soft hemolysis with rubella was determined with sera obtained from 129 persons during late convalescence ( 70-310 days after onset of symptoms ) . soft hemolysis disappeared by 190 days after the onset of symptoms and the presence of ordinary hemolysis ruled out primary rubella in the preceding 70-100 days . soft hemolysis was caused by igg antibody to rubella virus , and thus represents a new serodiagnostic principle . this technique , together with an igm assay , allows rapid diagnosis of recent rubella from a single serum sample . 
lack of association between titers of hai antibody and whole-virus elisa values for patients with congenital rubella syndrome . 
tonsillitis and rash associated with corynebacterium haemolyticum . 
corynebacterium haemolyticum as a cause of nonstreptococcal pharyngitis [ letter ] 
safety and immunogenicity of live attenuated rhesus monkey rotavirus vaccine . 
study of the protective effect of the primary hamster kidney cell rabies vaccine [ letter ] 
weekend consultative panic : fact or fiction ? [ letter ] 
iontophoresis of vidarabine monophosphate for herpes orolabialis . the cutaneous application of antiviral agents was studied by iontophoresis , a process that increases penetration of most drugs 20- to 60-fold . twenty-seven subjects with vesicular orolabial herpes were treated one time in a double-blind , placebo-controlled clinical study : nine received vidarabine monophosphate ( ara-amp ) , nine received acyclovir ( acv ) , and nine received nacl . ara-amp-treated lesions yielded lower titers of virus after 24 hr compared with lesions treated with nacl or acv ( p less than .05 ) . ara-amp significantly decreased the duration of shedding of virus ( p less than .05 ) and time to dry crust ( p less than .05 ) compared with the other two agents . there was a trend toward decreased healing time after ara-amp treatment . 
occupational risk of hepatitis b from institutionalized mentally retarded hbsag carriers : a prospective study . in an institution for the mentally retarded , a total of 13 ( 2.4 % ) susceptible employees seroconverted for hepatitis b during 539 person-years . two of them developed acute hepatitis b ; the cost of their medical care and temporary disability was $ 7 , 772. eleven seroconverters had no elevation of serum alanine aminotransferase , and all seroconverters recovered without chronic sequelae . nine converters acquired antibody to hbsag alone ; three of these had no client contact . difficulty in identifying nonoccupational causes of hepatitis b infection in the institutional setting often leads to labeling of all seroconversions as occupationally acquired . hepatitis b vaccine is recommended for client-care personnel . 
principles behind therapeutic embryo freezing . 
a formula for scoring human embryo growth rates in in vitro fertilization : its value in predicting pregnancy and in comparison with visual estimates of embryo quality . two systems for measuring embryo development in vitro were evaluated . one was a 1-4 scale based on a subjective evaluation of embryo quality ( eq ) from microscopic appearance . in addition , a formula for scoring embryo growth rate in vitro was developed . the embryo development rating ( edr ) was based on the ratio between the time at which embryos were observed at a particular stage after insemination and the time at which they would be expected to reach that stage in a hypothetical " ideal " growth rate with a cell cycle length of 11.9 hr . using this scoring system , " normally " growing embryos scored 100. this approach was aimed at partially normalizing the data and allowed all embryos to be analyzed similarly regardless of the time of observation . analysis of 1539 embryo replacements resulting in 232 clinical pregnancies showed that both edr and embryo-quality scores were of value in predicting success , with clinical pregnancy most likely to eventuate from a combination of moderate to good eq scores ( 2-4 ) coupled with average or above-average growth rates ( edr scores from 90 to 129 ) . poor-quality and very slowly or very rapidly growing embryos were underrepresented in cycles that proceeded to pregnancy . these inferences were based on all embryos transferred ( mean , 2.73 per transfer cycle ) , and they were substantiated by an analysis of 33 pregnancies resulting from replacement of a single embryo and from 18 pregnancies in which all embryos scored the same with both systems . eq and edr were significantly associated with each other and together provide a valuable guide in predicting pregnancy , in selecting embryos for freezing , and in monitoring day-to-day performance in the in vitro fertilization ( ivf ) program . 
comparison of two media in a human in vitro fertilization program : lack of significant differences in pregnancy rate . 
successful oocyte retrieval and in vitro fertilization following ultrasound-directed aspiration of endometriomas . 
the in vitro fertilization program at the chinese university of hong kong [ letter ] 
free radicals and prostanoid synthesis [ editorial ] 
the mystery of acute rheumatic fever and poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis [ editorial ] 
acute rheumatic fever and poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis in an open population : comparative studies of epidemiology and bacteriology . we conducted epidemiologic and bacteriologic studies of 104 cases of acute rheumatic fever ( arf ) and 84 cases of poststreptococcal acute glomerulonephritis ( agn ) occurring in the southeast health district of santiago , chile , between march 1978 , and february 1982. the agn cases were both postpharyngeal and postpyodermal in origin . despite the fact that arf and agn were occurring in the same neighborhoods and among families of equivalent size and socioeconomic status , the pharyngeal isolation rates of group a streptococci were significantly lower among patients with arf and their household contacts than among patients with agn and their contacts . moreover , the streptococcal throat colonization rates and geometric mean anti-streptolysin o titers were similar in arf families and the families of noninfected controls . streptococci of m-type 5 , a highly rheumatogenic type , were isolated from three patients with arf ( representing 36 % of group a isolates from this group ) and one arf contact but never from patients with agn , control subjects , or their respective contacts . these observations suggest possible differences in the streptococcal milieus from which arf and agn cases emerge . the nature of such differences requires further exploration . 
role of portasystemic shunts in the hyperkinetic circulation of the portal hypertensive rat . we evaluated the role of portasystemic shunts in the hyperkinetic circulatory state in rats with portal hypertension . cardiac output and regional blood flow were measured by the radioactive microsphere technique in rats with portal hypertension caused by portal vein stenosis , in rats with end-to-side portacaval shunts , and in sham-operated rats . cardiac output was significantly higher in rats with surgical shunts than in those of the two other groups and was significantly lower in sham-operated rats compared with portal hypertensive rats . portal tributary blood flow and hepatic arterial blood flow expressed in absolute flow as well as in percentage of cardiac output were significantly increased in rats with surgical shunts compared with other groups . these blood flows were also significantly higher in portal hypertensive rats than in sham-operated animals . a significant correlation was found between cardiac output and portal tributary blood flow in rats with portal vein stenosis and in rats with surgical shunts ; this correlation was absent in sham-operated rats . this study shows that the hyperkinetic circulatory state in rats with portal hypertension and a normal liver is related to the presence of portasystemic shunts but not to portal hypertension per se . 
plasma 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 response to parathyroid hormone , cyclic adenosine monophosphate , and phosphorus depletion in the spontaneously hypertensive rat . spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr ) have several abnormalities of calcium metabolism compared with normotensive control wistar-kyoto ( wky ) rats . previously the vitamin d metabolite 1 , 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol ( 1 , 25 [ oh ] 2d3 ) was found to be inappropriately low in shr in view of their ionized hypocalcemia and hyperparathyroidism . we examined the responses of plasma 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 to several known stimuli . baseline plasma 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 levels tended to be lower in shr than wky rats ( 51.5 + / - 4.3 vs . 82.3 + / - 14.1 pg / ml , p = 0.06 ) . infusion of a pharmacologic dose of parathyroid hormone ( 8 u / hr over a period of 17 hours ) resulted in a plasma 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 level of 504 + / - 77 pg / ml in shr vs . 1016 + / - 211 pg / ml in wky rats ( p less than 0.03 ) . cyclic adenosine monophosphate infusion ( 1 mumol / hr / 100 gm over a period of 17 hours ) in thyroparathyroidectomized animals resulted in a 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 level of 121 + / - 24 pg / ml in shr vs . 557 + / - 26 pg / ml in wky rats ( p less than 0.01 ) . after dietary phosphorus depletion for 3 weeks , shr also had lower 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 levels than wky rats ( 83 + / - 13 vs . 300 + / - 42 pg / ml , p less than 0.001 ) even though a comparable degree of hypophosphatemia was achieved . thus , the response of plasma 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 levels to several known stimuli is submaximal in shr as compared with wky rats , suggesting defective synthesis or enhanced metabolic clearance of this hormone . 
simple method for monitoring 24-hour urinary urea nitrogen excretion . the urine urea nitrogen / urine creatinine excretion ratio ( uun / ucr ) of a " spot " urine specimen obtained approximately 5 hours after the last meal of the day can be used to accurately calculate the urinary urea excretion for the previous 24-hour period . because uun excretion is largely determined by dietary intake of protein nitrogen , this method can be used to estimate dietary protein intake for the previous 24-hour period . strategies for using this simple method for inexpensively and continuously monitoring dietary protein intake are discussed . 
cumulative effects of quinidine and aspirin on bleeding time and platelet alpha 2-adrenoceptors : potential mechanism of bleeding diathesis in patients receiving this combination . we observed quinidine-induced prolongation of bleeding time without thrombocytopenia in three subjects . in addition , we noticed a cumulative prolongation of bleeding time by a combination of quinidine and aspirin . we postulated that because both quinidine and aspirin inhibit epinephrine-induced platelet aggregation , a cumulative effect of the two drugs might be responsible for the hemostatic defect . in studies using normal human platelets , we confirmed a marked reduction in epinephrine-induced platelet aggregation by the combination of these two agents . to further study the potential mechanism of this cumulative effect , platelet lysates were incubated with the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist tritiated yohimbine in the presence of quinidine and aspirin . on the basis of the radioligand binding data , the dissociation constant ( kd ) of alpha 2-adrenoceptors was observed to increase in the presence of quinidine as well as aspirin . the combination of these two agents caused a marked increase in the kd of platelet alpha 2-adrenoceptors without alteration in the number of receptor sites . these data suggest that the cumulative effects of quinidine and aspirin on platelet alpha 2-adrenoceptor kd may relate to the significant reduction in epinephrine-induced platelet aggregation . this phenomenon , coupled with other well-known effects of aspirin on the platelet release reaction and arachidonate metabolism , may lead to bleeding problems in some patients receiving this combination . 
iron binding , internalization , and fate in human alveolar macrophages . chronic inflammation in such diseases as rheumatoid arthritis has been associated with the accumulation of iron in mononuclear phagocytes . cigarette smoking , which also produces chronic pulmonary inflammation , may be associated with iron accumulation in alveolar macrophages ( am ) . we have examined the total iron content in human am and found it to be 43.0 + / - 7.7 ( mean + / - sem ) and 12.8 + / - 1.3 nmol / 1 x 10 ( 6 ) cells ( p less than 0.01 ) from smokers and nonsmokers , respectively . because the higher iron content in smokers ' macrophages may reflect increased internalization , the binding and uptake of iron-saturated transferrin was examined in cells from smokers and nonsmokers . however , no significant differences were found between the two groups . the smoking-related alteration in iron content may instead reflect differences in the fate of internalized iron . iron internalized by am as iron 59 initially bound to transferrin was distributed to a cytoplasmic , largely ferritin-associated , pool more slowly in smokers than in nonsmokers , during a 24-hour incubation in vitro . significantly less newly internalized iron was returned to the culture medium by am from smokers , which by 24 hours had released 11.0 % + / - 3.7 % of the initially internalized 59fe compared with 36.0 % + / - 2.3 % for nonsmokers ( p less than 0.01 ) . the increased accumulation of iron by am in the alveolar space of smokers may modulate hydroxyl radical production in the microenvironment of these cells . 
effect of tauroursodeoxycholate on the biliary transport maximum of sulfobromophthalein in the rat . the effect of tauroursodeoxycholate ( tu ) infusion on the plasma level and biliary transport maximum ( tm ) of sulfobromophthalein ( bsp ) was examined in male rats during a continuous intravenous infusion of bsp with different tu infusion rates . the infusion rate of 0.6 mumol / min / 100 gm body weight of tu caused significantly higher bile flow and bsp tm values compared with the respective control values in rats with only a bsp infusion . these values , however , were significantly lower than values obtained by an equimolar infusion of taurocholate ( tc ) . the higher infusion rates of tu ( 1.2 and 1.8 mumol / min / 100 gm ) tended to cause higher bile flow rates , but the bsp tm value did not increase beyond the value obtained at the lower infusion rate ( 0.6 mumol / min / 100 gm ) . in the highest tu infusion rate study ( 1.8 mumol / min / 100 gm ) , plasma bsp concentrations were significantly higher than corresponding control values or values at a lower tu or tc infusion rate . it was concluded that in rats tu can significantly increase the bsp tm , but to a lesser extent than tc . furthermore , it was suggested that tu infusion at a higher rate significantly interferes with the hepatic uptake ( or storage ) of bsp . 
morphometric evaluation of thrombogenesis by microvesicles from human tumor cell lines with thrombin-dependent ( u87mg ) and adenosine diphosphate-dependent ( sknmc ) platelet-activating mechanisms . the baumgartner perfusion apparatus has been used for quantitative comparison of the interaction of platelets with subendothelium in the presence of microvesicles derived from sknmc ( human neuroblastoma ) cells , which aggregate platelets by an adenosine diphosphate ( adp ) -dependent mechanism , and u87mg ( human glioblastoma ) cells , which function by a thrombin-dependent mechanism . the derived microvesicles from each line were as effective as the intact cells in inducing thrombogenesis on both undigested and alpha-chymotrypsin-digested subendothelium . thrombus size on digested vessels was greater than on undigested vessels by fivefold for sknmc cells and microvesicles and by 20-fold for u87mg cells and sevenfold for u87mg microvesicles . the results show that microvesicles from both cell lines initiate interactions between platelets and subendothelium identical to those caused by intact tumor cells . the results also demonstrate that intact tumor cells in the circulation may not be necessary for the thromboembolic complications of malignancy . 
urine protein excretion in acute pancreatitis . the mechanism of the increased renal clearance of amylase and the amylase to creatinine clearance ratio ( cam / ccr ) in acute pancreatitis remains controversial with both renal tubular dysfunction and altered glomerular permeability being invoked as explanations . to differentiate between these mechanisms , we investigated the quantity and character of protein excretion in 10 patients with pancreatitis . for a short period of time , seven of 10 patients had mild proteinuria with a mean protein excretion rate of 230 + / - 154 mg / 24 hr . proteinuria decreased in 9 / 9 survivors to 17 + / - 18 mg / 24 hr . albumin excretion rate initially was minimally increased in 10 / 10 patients with a mean of 61 + / - 40 mg / 24 hr , decreasing during recovery in 8 / 9 survivors to 10.9 + / - 10.4 mg / 24 hr ( p less than 0.01 ) . electrophoresis of urine obtained during the acute phase consistently showed a low molecular weight proteinuria pattern that cleared with recovery . twenty-one of 22 urinary samples with an elevated cam / ccr had a low molecular weight protein pattern . all the above findings can be explained by alterations in renal tubular reabsorption of proteins without changes in glomerular permeability . in 2 / 4 patients a low molecular weight protein was present in urine specimens from the acute phase that was not present in highly concentrated urine specimens from the recovery period . this raises the possibility that an abnormal low molecular weight protein enters the serum in acute pancreatitis , which , after glomerular filtration , produces the renal tubular malfunction found in acute pancreatitis . 
etiology of peripartum cardiomyopathy [ letter ] 
pica in pregnancy [ letter ] 
ethical gatekeeping : the ongoing debate [ editorial ] 
multiple sclerosis [ clinical conference ] 
umbilical cord bilirubin levels as a predictor of subsequent hyperbilirubinemia . serum cord total bilirubin levels can define a subgroup of infants who are at a higher risk for developing significant hyperbilirubinemia and requiring phototherapy . infants with cord bilirubin levels less than 2.0 mg / dl have only a 4 percent chance of developing hyperbilirubinemia and a 1.4 percent chance of needing phototherapy . however , if serum cord bilirubin levels are more than 2.0 mg / dl , the infant has a 25 percent chance of developing subsequent hyperbilirubinemia . with early discharge from the nursery a more common practice , this level can identify at an early age those infants who need closer follow-up . 
the influence of a family practice residency on the costs of inpatient diagnostic testing . a retrospective review of hospital records for 333 patients admitted to a large community teaching hospital by family physicians and family practice residents was performed to determine whether teaching programs in family practice led to a significant increase in the cost of care to patients . three patient populations were identified for comparison : patients admitted by private family physicians when residents were not involved in patient care , patients admitted by the same family physicians while they served as attending physicians on the family practice service and allowed residents to participate in the care of their patients , and patients admitted by residents from the patient population at the family practice center . after taking into account differences in case mix , an analysis of laboratory charges , radiology use , frequency of procedures , and use of consultants showed that the three groups were not different . family practice residents managed their own patients as cost effectively as physicians in private practice , which suggests that experience alone is not necessary to develop methods of cost-efficient care . when these two groups were combined into a teaching unit , with few exceptions this efficiency was maintained . these results imply that the introduction of family practice residents into patient care does not invariably increase expenses to the patient . 
assessing interviewing skills : the simulated office oral examination . the college of family physicians of canada uses a simulated office oral examination to test candidates for certification in family medicine . this examination has been highly successful . an analysis of this instrument provides a description of skills required for a certificant of the college . its basic outline can be used to assess residents ' interviewing skills during training and to help prepare them for practice . 
a program for family medicine in an era of cost constraints . 
responsibility vs anonymity . 
detection of cocaine metabolite in perspiration stain , menstrual bloodstain , and hair . low nanogram and picogram quantities of cocaine metabolite equivalents were detected in extracts from perspiration stains , menstrual bloodstains , and hair using radioimmunoassay . the theory of drug inclusion in hair and its significance are discussed . 
detection of cannabinoids in homicide victims and motor vehicle fatalities . a gas chromatographic / mass spectrometric ( gc / ms ) procedure is described for the detection and measurement of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol , 11-hydroxy-delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol , and 11-nor-delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol-9-carboxylic acid in blood , or 11-nor-delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol-9-carboxylic acid in urine . about 50 % of all homicide victims and motor vehicle drivers killed in bexar county in 1985 were tested for the presence of cannabinoids . of 130 homicides and 69 drivers tested , blood was analyzed primarily in all but 15 and 3 cases , respectively . in these latter cases , blood analyzed after urine was found to be positive . of the homicide victims , 44 ( 34 % ) , and of all drivers , 19 ( 28 % ) , tested were positive for one or more of the cannabinoids . as a separate group , 16 motorcycle drivers tested had 38 % positive as compared with 25 % of the other vehicle drivers . ethyl alcohol was present in 55 % of the drivers , and in 63 % of the homicide victims . drugs other than alcohol or cannabinoids were found in 10 % of the drivers , and in 12 % of the homicide victims . 
subtyping phosphoglucomutase-1 in semen stains and bloodstains : a report on the method . a method is described for obtaining nondistorted , reproducible phosphoglucomutase-1 subtyping patterns from semen stains and bloodstains . isoelectric focusing of phosphoglucomutase-1 was accomplished in 80 min in a 0.2-mm-thick polyacrylamide gel with an interelectrode wick distance of 8.0 cm . the gel contained 1.2 % ( w / v ) n- ( 2-hydroxyethyl ) piperazine-n-3-propanesulfonic acid ( epps ) and ph 5 to 7 ampholytes ( 4 % w / v ) . when maintained at room temperature , laboratory-prepared bloodstains and semen stains could be typed for phosphoglucomutase-1 up to four months and three weeks , respectively . an evaluation of phosphoglucomutase-1 typing by isoelectric focusing and the group i system was performed on casework samples submitted to the fbi laboratory . in addition to the increased discriminating probability of phosphoglucomutase-1 when subtyped , isoelectric focusing yielded an increase in positive calls on questioned bloodstains ( 65.6 versus 36.2 % ) and dried seminal stains ( 16.4 versus 13.1 % ) compared with the group i system . 
catecholamines in the vitreous fluid and urine of guinea pigs dying of cold and the effect of postmortem freezing and autolysis . concentrations of catecholamines in vitreous fluid and urine in guinea pigs dying of cold and the effects of freezing and autolysis on these parameters were studied . the analysis was performed by high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection . noradrenaline ( na ) concentration in vitreous fluid was more than 20 times higher in the cold exposed animals than in controls ( 44.2 + / - 9.2 versus 2.0 + / - 1.0 ng / ml ) . autolysis alone caused an increase to 33.5 + / - 7.7 ng / ml , and freezing alone to 13.4 + / - 5.3 ng / ml . the highest values were in the group with exposure , freezing , and autolysis . adrenaline ( a ) concentration in the vitreous fluid increased fourfold ( 3.9 + / - 1.5 versus 0.7 + / - 0.5 ng / ml ) in cold exposure and twofold as a result of autolysis . dopamine ( da ) concentration in vitreous fluid was elevated only in the group with exposure , freezing , and autolysis . the increase of na concentration in urine was fivefold during the whole exposure ( from 19.4 + / - 6.9 to 109 + / - 57.3 ng / ml ) , but a was increased by twentyfold ( from 10 + / - 5.1 to 213.2 + / - 168.7 ng / ml ) , whereas da concentration did not change . the increase of average excretion of na to urine was eightfold during the first 6 h of exposure , and that of a tenfold . according to the present results , elevated concentrations of catecholamines in the vitreous fluid and urine can be used as a diagnostic aid for hypothermia death . concerning the values of noradrenaline in the vitreous , the increase as a result of autolysis must be taken in account when interpreting the results . 
the sciatic notch / acetabular index as a discriminator of sex in european skeletal remains . the sciatic notch / acetabular index and its rule of thumb application was tested on two european skeletal series of documented sex . the results showed poor consistency between documented and estimated sex . of the two variables comprising the index , it appeared that sciatic notch width was a particularly poor discriminator of sex . it is suggested that this may be due to differences in the relationship between sciatic notch form and body size in different ethnic groups . 
an appraisal of plastic reconstruction of the external nose . the association between the morphometric dimensions of the external nose , including the thickness of the soft tissues , and various craniometric measurements has been examined on a sample of lateral radiographs of 154 males and 199 females from vienna , austria . in addition , the influence of age on morphometric dimensions and the soft tissue cover was tested . multiple stepwise regression analysis revealed that nasal height and nasal length are best predicted by the dimensions of the skull , whereas nasal depth and the thickness of the soft tissues is greatly influenced by age . in males , over 50 % of the variance of nasal height and nasal length were accounted for by the height of the bony nose and the prominence of the ossa nasalia , and in females it was about 40 % . although the thickness of the soft tissue is dependent on exogenous factors , such as nutrition , mimicry , and so forth , the dimensions of the bony nose apparently also influence the skin depths to some extent . high and prominent noses were found to have a thinner layer of soft tissue over the nasal bones than short and less prominent ones . it thus seems as if there is a tendency of the soft tissue cover to adjust to disharmonies of the bony profile . 
cocaine-related deaths in pima county , arizona , 1982-1984 . a three-year review of toxicology data from medical examiner autopsies in pima county , arizona , has demonstrated that cocaine has rapidly become a leading substance of abuse , second only to alcohol in the frequency of drugs detected by toxicologic analysis of all suspicious deaths , motor vehicle accident fatalities , homicides , and suicides . gastric contents and urine were analyzed by thin-layer chromatography , and nasal swabs , blood , and urine were tested for the combination of cocaine and its metabolite benzoylecgonine by quantitative radioimmunoassay . a total of seventy-two deaths in pima county from 1982 to 1984 have involved cocaine . seventy percent of these have occurred in the last fifteen months . marked variation in the individual response to cocaine compared to the blood concentration of cocaine / metabolite was noted . 
domestic violence : a medicolegal review . this paper reviews the recent medical and legal literature in the field of spouse abuse . domestic violence is a national phenomenon that directly affects victims of spouse abuse and indirectly conditions the children of the victims to accept violent behavior as normative . this paper characterizes the cycle of violence battered women encounter , describes their injury patterns , explores the dynamics of the abusive relationship , and discusses the factors that compel women to remain in such violent relationships . the second section describes many of the recent legislation designed to prevent spouse abuse . next , this paper addresses the case law utilizing the " battered woman syndrome " as a defense for spousal homicide . the third section of the paper explores the often neglected topic of the battered husband . 
pseudoabuse--the misdiagnosis of child abuse . when a patient 's problem is judged to be the result of child abuse and it is not , considerable harm may be done to the child , his parents , and the doctor-parent relationship . the case histories of 15 children who were thought to be abused are reviewed and their correct diagnoses are presented . overdiagnosing the battered child syndrome can be as harmful as failing to consider it . 
a consultant 's survey of the patients in a maximum security hospital . the patients at a state maximum security forensic facility were interviewed by a psychiatrist and their files reviewed . only 43 of the 203 patients were judged to be suitable for the facility . nearly 60 % of the pretrial defendants were judged to be capable of proceeding to trial . of the patients , 18 % were judged to be malingering or avoiding trial or prison . the implications of these findings are discussed . 
the simultaneous separation of the enzymes glyoxalase i , esterase d , and phosphoglucomutase . a procedure for the multisystem analysis of bloodstains using the simultaneous separation of the enzymes glyoxalase i , esterase d , and phosphoglucomutase has been developed . the amount of bloodstain required has therefore been reduced threefold without any loss in resolution and sensitivity . bloodstains at least seven weeks old have been correctly phenotyped in all three systems . 
reassembling scattered and mixed human bones by trace element ratios . trace metal ratios in human bones were examined to determine if there were ratios that were sufficiently consistent within an individual yet varying sufficiently from the bones of another individual so that bones in a mixed grave could be reassembled . the concentrations of 21 elements sampled at 54 places on 30 human bones in each of 5 skeletons indicated that the magnesium / zinc ratio was the most reliable and that the zinc / sodium , magnesium / sodium , and chromium / sodium ratios could be used as supplements to help reassemble human bones belonging to the same individual after all standard techniques had been used . 
mid-facial tissue depths of white children : an aid in facial feature reconstruction . available facial tissue thickness standards for facial feature reconstruction are based on adult measurements . mid-facial tissue thicknesses for male and female white adolescents are presented here . measurements were taken from lateral radiographs produced in an orthodontic practice . statistical analysis indicates that age , sex , and to some extent , dental occlusion pattern are factors that should be taken into account when attempting facial feature reconstructions . 
dicyclomine in the sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) --a cause of death or an incidental finding ? we report a case of a small infant apparently dying of the sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) with a postmortem blood dicyclomine level of 200 ng / ml . review of the literature and the comparison with blood dicyclomine values from four rabbits given equivalent doses suggests that a blood dicyclomine value of 200 ng / ml probably is in the therapeutic range for infants . although safely used for years for infantile colic , recently , the administration of dicyclomine has been related to acute episodes of apnea , seizures , and coma . in the absence of those acute reactions , we feel that a 200-ng / ml blood dicyclomine level in a child dying of apparent sids should not prevent categorization of the death as sids . 
homicidal asphyxia by pepper aspiration . as punishment for lying , the foster mother of a five-year-old white male poured pepper into his throat . he immediately became dyspneic , then apneic , and was pronounced dead about 1 h later . at autopsy , the main stem and several smaller bronchi were occluded with pepper . mechanisms of asphyxia by pepper include mechanical obstruction of the tracheobronchial tree and mucosal edema caused by the irritant effect of volatile oils in pepper . this rare circumstance represents the second reported fatal case of pepper aspiration and the third reported case overall . 
bullet or bite--a contribution to the morphogenesis of gunshot dermal injury . histopathologic studies of dermal dog bites revealed changes identical with those observed in distant gunshot skin entrance wounds and in a presternal skin stab wound made by a screwdriver . the similarity of the epithelial and collagen changes produced by these three totally different traumatizing , perforating agencies indicate that it is the bullet 's penetrating and crushing power , and not its caloric content , that is responsible for the characteristic dermal collagen changes noted in these common injuries . 
distribution of morphine in body fluids and tissues in fatal overdose . two cases of fatal overdose with morphine are presented . large amounts of the drug were involved in both cases , one by oral ingestion , the other by intravenous injection . morphine concentrations in various body fluids and tissues are compared to those in the literature . 
a case of fatal rotenone poisoning in a child . a case of a fatal rotenone poisoning in a three-and-a-half-year-old girl is described . the case report and autopsy findings are mentioned . for the extraction of rotenone out of biological samples , a solvent partitioning and silica gel open column chromatographic cleanup procedure has been used . the determination of rotenone was performed by high pressure liquid chromatography . 
the investigation of alleged insecticide toxicity : a case involving chlordane exposure , multiple sclerosis , and peripheral neuropathy . a man with no previous medical problems had two documented exposures to an insecticide containing the organophosphorous compounds chlordane and heptachlor . six months to one year later , he began to experience neurological symptoms which progressed until his death . at autopsy , his brain showed classic findings of multiple sclerosis , and he had a severe peripheral neuropathy . review of the literature indicates that the findings are not compatible with chlordane toxicity . some of the factors to be used in determining the casual relationship between toxic exposure and disease processes are discussed . 
toxicological findings in a fatal overdose of verapamil . presented is a case where the death was attributed to the deliberate ingestion of an overdose of verapamil ( v ) . blood , urine , and gastric concentrations of the drug were determined by gas chromatography with nitrogen phosphorus detection ( gc-npd ) . identification of norverapamil ( nv ) was made . a presumptive identification of o-demethylnorverapamil ( dnv ) was also made . 
subcapsular hematoma in fatty liver of pregnancy . a case of fatty liver of pregnancy with subcapsular hematoma of the liver caused by intravenous heparin treatment is reported . the heparin was given for the thrombophlebitis of leg veins . the patient expired suddenly as a result of rupture of the subcapsular hematoma of the liver causing massive intraperitoneal hemorrhage . the pathophysiology and complications of the fatty liver of pregnancy are discussed . 
coping and recovery styles in the vietnam era prisoner of war . of the nearly 600 vietnam war american prisoners of war ( pows ) , 332 were united states air force flyers who had suffered maltreatment , confinement , and boredom for months to years . we examined four coping styles of usaf pows related to successful / unsuccessful coping and resistance stance during captivity and cognitive integration of the prisoner experience after repatriation . findings indicate that no coping style is clearly associated with an increased risk of postrepatriation psychiatric morbidity . postrepatriation mmpi scales indicate personality differences between individuals in the various coping groups . 
treatment progress in 20 patients with multiple personality disorder . attempts to follow the treatment progress of patients with multiple personality have been limited to a few single case studies and , in the only large series , to those most successfully treated . this study followed the treatment progress of 20 patients for a mean of 39 months after intake . the study included a detailed history , neurological examination , and psychological testing on each patient . at follow-up each patient was interviewed and a questionnaire was completed by his or her therapist to assess treatment response . although nine patients achieved partial or full integration , complete integration was maintained by only five . during therapy the unintegrated patients experienced emotional trauma at approximately twice the rate as did the patients who eventually became integrated . psychodynamic psychotherapy and hypnosis were the most widely prescribed therapies . the improvement in multiple personality appeared to proceed in a stepwise fashion from acceptance of the diagnosis to integration . the progress of therapy was hindered most commonly by the overuse of the mental mechanisms of repression and denial , the continued utilization of secrecy , which began during child abuse , and the production of numerous crises . the most common countertransferences included anger , exasperation , and emotional exhaustion . although the psychotherapy of patients with multiple personality is tedious and time consuming , it can be eminently successful if the patient and therapist persevere . 
high-functioning multiple personality patients . three cases . this article describes the circumstances of the diagnosis of three of a group of 12 high-functioning multiple personality disorder patients . all had performed major social and professional activities with consistent competence , and all appeared to be neurotic patients suitable for classical psychoanalysis . all 12 had been misdiagnosed on at least three occasions before the correct diagnosis was made . aspects of the difficulties encountered in assessing these patients are discussed and guidelines for the preservation of their high level of function during the treatment process are offered . 
development , reliability , and validity of a dissociation scale . dissociation is a lack of the normal integration of thoughts , feelings , and experiences into the stream of consciousness and memory . dissociation occurs to some degree in normal individuals and is thought to be more prevalent in persons with major mental illnesses . the dissociative experiences scale ( des ) has been developed to offer a means of reliably measuring dissociation in normal and clinical populations . scale items were developed using clinical data and interviews , scales involving memory loss , and consultations with experts in dissociation . pilot testing was performed to refine the wording and format of the scale . the scale is a 28-item self-report questionnaire . subjects were asked to make slashes on 100-mm lines to indicate where they fall on a continuum for each question . in addition , demographic information ( age , sex , occupation , and level of education ) was collected so that the connection between these variables and scale scores could be examined . the mean of all item scores ranges from 0 to 100 and is called the des score . the scale was administered to between 10 and 39 subjects in each of the following populations : normal adults , late adolescent college students , and persons suffering from alcoholism , agoraphobia , phobic-anxious disorders , posttraumatic stress disorder , schizophrenia , and multiple personality disorder . reliability testing of the scale showed that the scale had good test-retest and good split-half reliability . item-scale score correlations were all significant , indicating good internal consistency and construct validity . a kruskal-wallis test and post hoc comparisons of the scores of the eight populations provided evidence of the scale 's criterion-referenced validity . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
psychiatric illness in diabetes mellitus . relationship to symptoms and glucose control . the lifetime prevalence of psychiatric illness was determined in 114 patients with diabetes mellitus ( types i and ii ) who were selected randomly from patients undergoing diabetes evaluations at a large medical center . the relationship of psychiatric illness to diabetic control was studied using glycosylated hemoglobin ( hba1 ) and self-report measures of metabolic symptoms . seventy-one percent of the patients had a lifetime history of at least one criteria-defined psychiatric illness ; affective and anxiety disorders were the most common diagnoses . a significant difference ( p = .02 ) in mean glycosylated hemoglobin levels was observed comparing patients with a recent psychiatric illness ( mean = 10.8 % ) to those never psychiatrically ill ( mean = 9.6 % ) . these psychiatrically ill patients also reported more symptoms of poor metabolic control and more distress associated with these symptoms than did patients never psychiatrically ill ( p less than .0001 for both ) . the overall report of diabetes symptoms was unrelated to hba1 ( p = .25 ) and was influenced primarily by the recent presence of psychiatric disorder ( p less than .0001 ) . we conclude that emotional illness is associated with both poorer metabolic control and the increased report of clinical symptoms of diabetes . 
use of the diagnostic interview schedule in patients with diabetes mellitus . in routine clinical practice and in research interviews like the diagnostic interview schedule ( dis ) , symptoms attributed to physical illness are excluded from contributing positively toward psychiatric diagnoses . the maximal rate of underdiagnosis which results from this diagnostic rule was determined in 114 patients with diabetes mellitus . when symptoms attributed to diabetes ( total = 296 , mean = 2.6 per patient ) were discounted , 256 diagnoses were made . eighteen additional diagnoses ( a 6.7 % increase ) were appreciated when these excluded symptoms were considered as psychiatrically significant ; however , only two of these new diagnoses were given to patients previously without a psychiatric diagnosis . the authors concluded that the dis is sensitive in its detection of psychiatric illness in diabetes and perhaps other physical illnesses as well . 
the distribution of multiple sclerosis in the united kingdom . parts of the united kingdom have the highest incidence , prevalence and mortality rates for multiple sclerosis in the world . although methods of ascertainment are not standardised , regional differences and changes with time are present for each of these statistics . mortality has declined , whereas prevalence and hospital discharge rates have increased owing in part to the improved survival but also to better case ascertainment . the gradient in prevalence seen between southern england ( 63 / 10 ( 5 ) ) , northern england and northern ireland ( 76-79 / 10 ( 5 ) ) , wales ( c . 113 / 10 ( 5 ) ) , north-east scotland ( 155 / 10 ( 5 ) ) and the orkneys ( 258 / 10 ( 5 ) ) can in part be attributed to varying methods of ascertainment but correlates with regional differences in the frequency of hla-dr2 in normal individuals ( 21-50 % ) . however no hla-dr2 association is observed in parts of scotland , where the prevalence is the highest in the united kingdom , because hla-dr2 and linked genes occur in up to 50 % of the normal population from these areas . if the aetiology of multiple sclerosis is multifactorial the frequency of the disease will increase where susceptibility genes are common because the probability of concurrence of the remaining critical events is high ; conversely when each aetiological agent is infrequent the chance of them all occurring in the same individual and therefore incidence of the disease are both lower . the fall in incidence observed in the orkney islands , possibly reflecting decline in an exogenous agent interacting with susceptibility factors , is consistent with this multifactorial hypothesis . 
acute optic neuritis : a prospective study of risk factors for multiple sclerosis . eighty two patients with isolated optic neuritis were studied prospectively to determine the frequency with which multiple sclerosis developed and the factors which increased its risk . patients were followed for 6 to 264 months ( mean , 57 months ) . twenty six patients ( 32 % ) developed clinically definite or probable multiple sclerosis during the period of follow-up . actuarial analysis predicted that 42 % would develop multiple sclerosis by 7 years . of those patients who developed multiple sclerosis , 92 % had symptoms within 4 years of the first attack of optic neuritis . the highest incidence of multiple sclerosis occurred in the 21-40 year age group . there was an increased risk of ms in patients with hla-dr2 and hla-b7 tissue types . the frequency of hla-dr4 was increased in patients with optic neuritis alone compared to controls and to patients with multiple sclerosis , but further studies are required to confirm this finding . 
a prognostic classification of cerebral cysticercosis : therapeutic implications . cerebral cysticercosis is a parasitic infestation with a highly variable prognosis and diverse clinical manifestations . over the period of two years 51 patients were studied prospectively with this infestation , paying particular attention to the duration and severity of the illness , clinical course , ct findings and therapeutic modalities . patients with parenchymal cysts or calcification without hydrocephalus had a benign disorder presenting commonly with seizures . this type of infestation usually is long-standing , almost never requires surgical treatment , responds to praziquantel therapy and has a good prognosis . in contrast , patients who present with hydrocephalus , large supratentorial cysts , multiple granulomata with cerebral oedema or with vasculitis and cerebral infarction , have an aggressive , acute or subacute illness , presenting with raised intracranial pressure , gait disturbances , mental changes , seizures , cranial nerve palsies , hemisphere syndromes , chronic meningitis and stroke . this malignant form usually requires surgical therapy , does not respond to praziquantel and may produce a fatal outcome or serious sequelae . 
carbamazepine-viloxazine interaction in patients with epilepsy . in six depressed epileptic patients stabilised on carbamazepine therapy , addition of the antidepressant agent viloxazine ( 300 mg / day for three weeks ) induced a marked ( average 55 % ) increase in steady-state plasma carbamazepine concentration . the concentration of the active metabolite carbamazepine-10 , 11-epoxide also increased during viloxazine therapy , but to a lesser extent ( 16 % ) . in three patients , these effects were associated with symptoms of carbamazepine intoxication , which regressed rapidly when plasma carbamazepine and carbamazepine-10 , 11-epoxide levels returned to baseline values after discontinuation of viloxazine . in a seventh patient , viloxazine had to be discontinued after only two weeks because of severe side effects associated with a striking elevation of carbamazepine and carbamazepine 10 , 11-epoxide levels ( by 197 % and 137 % respectively ) . although viloxazine appears to be one of the few antidepressants which can be used safely in patients with epilepsy these results indicate that the drug should be prescribed with great caution in subjects treated with carbamazepine . the mechanism of the interaction probably involves inhibition of the metabolism of both carbamazepine and its active epoxide metabolite . 
fast complex arm movements in parkinson 's disease . fast arm movements involving the shoulder and elbow joints have been analysed in normal controls and in patients with parkinson 's disease . the subjects were requested to draw on a graphic tablet triangles and squares of different size and shape . the patients produced a larger number of emg burst compared with controls . the movements were accurate , and each segment of the geometric figures was performed with a roughly straight trajectory , but the time necessary to trace the geometric figures and the pauses at the vertices were prolonged . we conclude that in parkinson 's disease the disability in generating two joint ballistic movements depends on a difficulty in running motor programmes for complex trajectories . 
visual evoked potentials in parkinsonism and dopamine blockade reveal a stimulus-dependent dopamine function in humans . veps were recorded with three different spatial frequencies of stimulation in patients affected by idiopathic parkinsonism and by parkinsonian syndromes . the detection of vep abnormalities in parkinson 's disease was dependent on the spatial frequency of the visual stimulus ( a vertical square wave grating ) . the vep latency was normal in parkinsonian syndrome patients ( except in one patient affected by familial parkinsonism ) . dopamine precursor therapy differently reduced the vep latency , depending on the spatial frequency of the visual stimulus . these findings suggest that the dopaminergic mechanism involved in the generation of vep delays is sensitive to stimulus spatial frequency . the study of veps before and after the administration of haloperidol confirmed this hypothesis . vep latency did not correlate with the major clinical symptoms of parkinson 's disease and could not predict the results of chronic dopaminergic therapy . 
hypergraphia : a right hemisphere syndrome . a new right hemisphere symptom is reported . five stroke patients with lesions in the perisylvian cortico-subcortical or thalamic region of the right hemisphere produced linguistically correct but semantically loose writing . the behaviour was initiated by subtle prompting and continued semiautomatically . a possible mechanism underlying this hypergraphia is discussed . 
elastic properties of muscles measured at the elbow in man : i . normal controls . passive elastic stiffness of muscle acting at the elbow was assessed in 19 normal subjects by measuring displacements produced by a torque motor acting at the joint . stiffness ranged from 0.40 to 1.8 nm / radian and was strongly correlated ( r = 0.85 ) with upper arm volume , allowing us to define a " normal " range for stiffness when corrected for arm volume . in addition , the angle of the elbow with the arm fully relaxed and no external torque applied ( " neutral " angle ) was found to be 107 degrees + / - 10 degrees . thus , we have quantified resting stiffness or " tone " in the arm and provided normal data for comparison with patients with pathophysiological conditions such as rigidity or spasticity . 
elastic properties of muscles measured at the elbow in man : ii . patients with parkinsonian rigidity . a method is described to measure reproducibly stiffness , and therefore " tone " , at the elbow of patients with parkinson 's disease using a torque motor . in parkinsonian versus normal patients ( previously reported ) it was observed that : the neutral angle in parkinson 's disease patients was significantly smaller ( 92 degrees + / - 15 degrees ) than in normals ( 107 degrees + / - 10 degrees ) , and in parkinson 's disease patients , even with relatively mild symptoms , the upper limb was stiffer than normals in the totally relaxed state with no electromyographic activity present . our results suggest that changes in the passive mechanical properties of the upper limb affected by parkinsonian rigidity may have taken place , accounting for the more flexed neutral elbow angle and greater passive stiffness . using this technique , response to antirigidity therapy and natural progression of illness can be quantitatively assessed and followed . 
mood changes associated with " end-of-dose deterioration " in parkinson 's disease : a controlled study . fluctuations of mood and psychic activation were assessed in relation to " mobile " and " immobile " periods in 18 patients with parkinson 's disease presenting typical " end-of-dose deterioration " . twelve subjects with chronic but active rheumatoid arthritis presenting increased physical disability due to severe morning joint stiffness with a repetitive pattern of mobile and immobile periods acted as controls . the overall degree of disability and its fluctuations were close enough in the two groups for fair comparison of changes in affective behaviour . temporary immobility was accompanied by adverse changes of mood and activation , which were significantly more marked in the parkinson 's disease group than in the controls , though to a lesser extent in those parkinson 's disease patients rated depressed even in their mobile periods . the possible correlation between mood changes and fluctuations of central dopaminergic function in the parkinson 's disease patients is discussed . 
a study of pain threshold in diabetics with neuropathic foot lesions . pain thresholds to a pinch stimulus were measured at eight sites on the dorsum of both feet from 17 diabetic patients . sixteen feet had neuropathic ulcers and seven had charcot arthropathy . vibration perception thresholds , radial nerve action potentials , muscle action potentials of flexor digitorum brevis , autonomic cardiovascular reflexes and reflex sweat output were also measured . pinch pain threshold was abnormal in 15 diabetic feet , 11 having one or more insensitive sites . there was a greater variability in threshold between sites tested in diabetic than control subjects . 
exteroceptive reflex myoclonus : clinical and electrophysiological study . 
subacute combined degeneration of the cord due to folate deficiency : response to methyl folate treatment . subacute combined degeneration of the cord is a rare complication of folate deficiency . disturbance of methylation reactions in nervous tissue probably underlie subacute combined degeneration of the cord arising from folate as well as vitamin b12 deficiency . methyl tetrahydrofolate is the form in which folic acid is transported into the cns . therefore methyl tetrahydrofolate treatment of the neurological and psychiatric manifestations of folate deficiency would seem to be theoretically advantageous . a case of subacute combined degeneration of the cord due to dietary folate deficiency and associated with an organic brain syndrome is reported . there was striking haematological , neurological and psychiatric response to methyl folate treatment . 
spasmodic torticollis relieved by removal of a cervical foreign body [ letter ] 
carcinoma of the bronchus presenting with hemichorea [ letter ] 
a gas mixer for computer calibration of an anesthetic mass spectrometer . to calibrate an anesthetic mass spectrometer without the use of premixed gases and vapors in cylinders , we devised a gas mixer using fixed resistances of capillary needle tubings and adjustable needle valves to dilute test gases and vapors with oxygen . the dilution ratio was determined during each calibration by diluting air with oxygen and noting the reduction in the ratio of nitrogen to oxygen . empiric correction was made by the computer for the effects of density and viscosity , relative to air , on the flow of nitrous oxide , carbon dioxide , and the saturated vapors of the three anesthetics through the capillary resistor . the computer was programmed to control solenoid valves both for calibration and for the multiplexed sampling of operating rooms . oxygen , nitrous oxide , and carbon dioxide were used as pure gases , and halothane , enflurane , and isoflurane were vaporized at room temperature in 50-ml vaporizers . the resulting calibrations were found to be accurate to within + / - 2 % . 
pulse oximetry during cardiac catheterization in children with congenital heart disease . one hundred and five children with congenital heart disease were monitored by pulse oximetry during cardiac catheterization . excellent correlation ( r = 0.95 ) was found between oxygen saturation values obtained with pulse oximetry and those obtained from arterial blood in 133 data pairs . this correlation was described by the regression equation y = 0.91x + 8.1 . the correlation was also excellent in 47 data pairs with saturation values of less than 90 % ( r = 0.94 , y = 0.93x + 6.0 ) from 36 cyanotic children . the clinical usefulness of pulse oximetry in the early recognition of decreased pulmonary blood flow or partial airway obstruction was demonstrated . early diagnosis of changes in oxygenation was especially helpful in children with cyanotic congenital heart disease , in whom small changes in arterial oxygen tension may cause large changes in oxygen saturation . 
effects of anesthetic agents on the drift of a transcutaneous oxygen tension sensor . both halothane and nitrous oxide can be reduced at the cathode of a polarographic oxygen electrode , causing the electrode current to drift upward and report falsely high oxygen tension . because transcutaneous oxygen tension is measured by a heated oxygen electrode , there is a potential for significant upward drift of these values . to examine the clinical significance of this drift , the following study was performed . transcutaneous oxygen tension sensors were calibrated at oxygen tensions of 0 mm hg and 157 mm hg ( room air ) just before clinical use during anesthesia . this calibration was rechecked immediately upon removal of the sensor from the patient at the end of the anesthesia . the predominant anesthetic agent used and the duration of monitoring were noted from the record . data were collected from 208 patients representing a total of 463.6 hours of anesthesia . the patients were divided into five groups based on anesthetic administered : halothane , enflurane , isoflurane , nitrous oxide-narcotic , and local / regional . the mean zero point recalibration value was 0.4 mm hg or less for all agents except halothane , for which it was 1.8 + / - 3.2 mm hg . this halothane drift was significantly greater than that for the other agents ( p less than 0.01 ) . room air recalibration was not significantly different in any of the five groups , varying from 160 + / - 4.9 mm hg for halothane to 157 + / - 4.9 mm hg for enflurane . all these drift values are within the manufacturer 's specifications . we conclude that the drift of the transcutaneous oxygen tension sensor due to anesthetic agents is not clinically significant . however , caution should be exercised when halothane is used during an extremely long period of anesthesia . 
an anesthesia information system for monitoring and record keeping during surgical anesthesia . we have developed an anesthesia information system ( ais ) that supports the anesthesiologist in monitoring and recording during a surgical operation . in development of the system , emphasis was placed on providing an anesthesiologist-computer interface that can be adapted to typical situations during anesthesia and to individual user behavior . one main feature of this interface is the integration of the input and output of information . the only device for interaction between the anesthesiologist and the ais is a touch-sensitive , high-resolution color display screen . the anesthesiologist enters information by touching virtual function keys displayed on the screen . a data window displays all data generated over time , such as automatically recorded vital signs , including blood pressure , heart rate , and rectal and esophageal temperatures , and manually entered variables , such as administered drugs , and ventilator settings . the information gathered by the ais is presented on the cathode ray tube in several pages . a main distributor page gives an overall view of the content of every work page . a one-page record of the anesthesia is automatically plotted on a multicolor digital plotter during the operation . an example of the use of the ais is presented from a field test of the system during which it was evaluated in the operating room without interfering with the ongoing operation . medical staff who used the ais imitated the anesthesiologist 's recording and information search behavior but did not have responsibility for the conduct of the anesthetic . 
skin avulsion during oscillometry . we observed a case of skin avulsion associated with measurement of blood pressure by oscillometry on an anesthetized patient in the prone position . epidermal shearing may be avoided in the prone patient by either wrapping the antecubital skin underlying the blood pressure cuff with gauze or preventing weight-bearing by the cuffed portion of the arm . 
do we monitor enough ? we do n't monitor enough . the choice of which intraoperative monitors to use for routine cases is difficult , because a multitude of monitors is available today . monitoring is deemed necessary to avoid problems , although there is little hard evidence that a specific monitor will improve outcome . the risk associated with modern noninvasive monitors , however , is negligible , and they should be considered for routine use in all patients . although errors in the variables displayed or misuse of correct information can cause difficulties , these result from a lack of education and are not a valid reason to abandon a particular monitoring modality . regular use of such monitoring tools as the electroencephalogram would allow clinicians to become familiar with how to interpret it in normal and crisis situations . the cost of a disaster during anesthesia ( such as unrecognized hypoxia ) is high . the dollars spent to cover a single major malpractice award could buy a tremendous number of monitors . the state of the art in the mid-1980s demands traditional anesthesia monitors plus continuous capnography and measurement of peripheral oxygenation . other negligible-risk monitors should also be used when feasible . improvement in monitoring design , particularly in output formats and in integration of monitored data , will be essential in the next few years , as will training in the proper use of monitors . 
progress in inflammatory breast cancer : cause for cautious optimism [ editorial ] 
bench-to-bedside research and the human tumor stem-cell assay--bridging the credibility gap [ editorial ] 
therapy-related leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome : clinical , cytogenetic , and prognostic features . one hundred twelve patients who developed acute leukemia or a myelodysplastic syndrome ( mds ) after chemotherapy or irradiation for another malignancy were reviewed . the median time from initial therapy to development of secondary leukemia or mds was 71 months ( range , 7 to 331 months ) . the initial malignancy was hematologic in 43 % . an mds presentation occurred in 57 patients ( 51 % ) , 55 % of whom subsequently transformed to acute leukemia . chromosomal abnormalities were documented in marrow specimens from 70 of 89 patients with analyzable metaphases ( 79 % ; 69 % of the total group ) . compared with 34 patients with metachronous secondary leukemia without prior chemotherapy or irradiation , those with therapy-related leukemia exhibited a significantly higher frequency of abnormalities of chromosomes 5 and / or 7 ( 43 % v 18 % ) , and lower incidence of diploid karyotypes ( 18 % v 50 % ) . chromosome 5 and / or 7 abnormalities were also significantly higher in patients previously treated with alkylating agents , procarbazine , and nitrosoureas ( 72 % to 83 % ) , compared with those who had received cyclophosphamide-based regimens ( 29 % ) , other chemotherapies ( 14 % ) , or irradiation alone ( 29 % ) . the median overall survival from diagnosis of the secondary leukemia or mds was 30 weeks . survival was significantly shorter for patients with acute leukemia compared with mds presentation ( 21 v 45 weeks ) ; in the latter category , it was similar whether evolution to acute leukemia occurred or not . of 72 patients treated with antileukemia therapy , 29 % achieved complete remission ( cr ) . a multivariate analysis of prognostic factors demonstrated the cytogenetic pattern to be the most important characteristic determining remission rate and survival . other important prognostic features were the morphologic presentation ( mds v acute leukemia ) for probability of achieving remission , and patient age and marrow blasts percentage for survival . 
primary chemotherapy in the treatment of inflammatory breast carcinoma : a study of 230 cases from the institut gustave-roussy . we report the largest series of induction chemotherapy for inflammatory breast carcinoma ( ibc ) . results of two chemotherapy protocols with radiation therapy ( rt ) ( 170 patients ) are compared with results with radiation alone ( 60 patients ) in the treatment of this disease . from 1973 to 1975 , 60 patients ( control , group c ) received rt ( 45 gy and 20 to 30 gy boost ) and hormonal manipulation . from 1976 to 1980 , 91 patients ( group a ) were treated with induction chemotherapy : adriamycin ( adria laboratories , columbus , ohio ) , vincristine , and methotrexate ( avm ) and rt on a cyclical schedule ; and maintenance chemotherapy : vincristine , cyclophosphamide , and 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) ( vcf ) . from 1980 to 1982 , 79 patients ( group b ) received induction chemotherapy , adriamycin , vincristine , cyclophosphamide , methotrexate , and 5-fu ( avcmf ) and rt on a cyclical schedule and vcf maintenance . hormonal manipulation was performed in all groups . disease-free survival at 4 years was 15 % for group c , 32 % for group a , and 54 % for group b ( p less than .005 group c v group a , less than .00001 group c v group b , and less than .01 group a v group b ) . total survival at 4 years was 42 % for group c , 53 % for group a , and 74 % for group b ( p = .17 group c v group a , less than .00001 group c v group b , and less than .001 group a v group b ) . clinical assessment of tumor aggressiveness , nodal status , type of chemotherapy administered , and early response to chemotherapy ( by third course ) were all prognostic factors . there is an important , highly statistically significant benefit in terms of both disease-free survival and total survival observed in patients treated with the addition of chemotherapy compared with radiation alone in ibc . 
a new endpoint for the assessment of adjuvant therapy in postmenopausal women with operable breast cancer . between 1978 and 1981 , 463 evaluable postmenopausal patients 65 years of age or younger with operable breast cancer and metastases in axillary lymph nodes were entered in ludwig breast cancer study iii ( ludwig iii ) and randomly allocated to receive chemoendocrine therapy with cyclophosphamide , methotrexate , 5-fluorouracil , low-dose continuous prednisone , and tamoxifen ( cmfp + t ) for 12 monthly cycles , or endocrine therapy alone with prednisone and tamoxifen ( p + t ) for 1 year , or no adjuvant treatment after mastectomy ( observation ) . at 60 months ' median follow-up , the 5-year disease-free survival ( dfs ) rates were 59 % for cmfp + t , 41 % for p + t , and 31 % for observation ( p less than .0001 ) , and the 5-year overall survival ( os ) rates were 71 % for cmfp + t , 64 % for p + t , and 59 % for observation ( p = .16 ; cmfp + t v observation , p = .07 ) . a new quality of life-oriented endpoint was defined to assist in the selection of therapeutic approach after surgery for postmenopausal patients : the time without symptoms of disease and subjective toxic effects of treatment ( twist ) . despite the larger initial discount due to subjective toxicity with chemoendocrine therapy , by 5 years postmastectomy the net difference in average twist for treated patients compared with the observation group was positive and approximately equal for both adjuvant treatment programs . adjuvant chemoendocrine therapy for postmenopausal women appears to be justified due to an emerging os advantage and increasing twist gained for the treated patients . 
a randomized study comparing a high and a standard dose of cisplatin in combination with etoposide in the treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung carcinoma . we conducted a randomized trial comparing a high ( 120 mg / m2 day 1 ) v a standard ( 60 mg / m2 day 1 ) dose of cisplatin in combination with etoposide ( 120 mg / m2 days 3 , 5 , and 7 ) in advanced non-small-cell lung carcinoma ( nsclc ) . two hundred forty-one patients were evaluable for survival and 207 for response . we obtained a 25 % objective response rate in the standard-dose arm and 29 % in the high-dose arm ; this difference was not statistically significant . there was no significant improvement in the overall survival or survival of responders with the high-dose regimen . however , toxicity ( mainly myelosuppression ) was significantly increased in the patients receiving the higher dose of cisplatin . an analysis of prognostic factors showed that disease progression , loss of body weight , performance status , and prior therapy were predictive parameters of survival . 
high-dose cisplatin in hypertonic saline : reduced toxicity of a modified dose schedule and correlation with plasma pharmacokinetics . a northern california oncology group pilot study in non-small-cell lung cancer . although increased efficacy has been described with a five-day schedule of high-dose cisplatin ( cddp ) in hypertonic saline , severe myelosuppression and cumulative neurotoxicity have limited the usefulness of this therapy . in order to evaluate a possible dose-response relationship in non-small-cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) , 17 patients with metastatic disease were treated with a modified dose schedule delivering the same total dose ( 200 mg / m2 ) in a divided day 1 and 8 schedule . during a pilot study , a total of 47 cycles of therapy were administered , with a median of three cycles per patient and a median total cumulative dose of 600 mg / m2 . nine of 17 patients received at least 600 mg / m2 . while nephrotoxicity was similar to previous reports of the five-day schedule , the incidence and severity of myelosuppression and peripheral neuropathy were markedly reduced . using this modified schedule , severe myelosuppression did not occur . clinically severe peripheral neuropathy developed in only one patient ( 6 % ) . the overall response rate was 47 % ( eight of 17 patients ) . plasma platinum pharmacokinetics during five cycles of the modified day 1 and 8 schedule were compared with pharmacokinetics of the five-day schedule . accumulation of plasma ultrafiltrate platinum occurred in the five-day schedule , but not in the day 1 and 8 schedule . this difference in pharmacokinetics is one possible explanation for the reduced toxicity of this modified schedule . although the degree of activity seen in this pilot study is encouraging , the efficacy of high-dose cddp in nsclc remains to be defined . in view of reduced myelosuppression and neurotoxicity , further trials with this modified schedule are indicated . 
an eortc gastrointestinal group evaluation of the combination of sequential methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil , combined with adriamycin in advanced measurable gastric cancer . in a phase ii multicenter trial , 71 patients with advanced measurable gastric cancer were registered to receive sequential high-dose methotrexate ( mtx ) and 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) combined with adriamycin ( a [ adria laboratories , columbus , oh ] ) . the response rate was 33 % ( 22 of 67 ) , including all eligible patients . there were nine complete responders ( crs ) . the median survival for all patients was 6 months . there has been one toxic death ; however , three other patients died from toxicity associated with major protocol violations . it is concluded that this protocol is active in gastric cancer . toxicity , partly because of nonprotocol adherence , is considerable and is now under further investigation in a randomized trial comparing this schedule with a combination of 5-fu , adriamycin , and mitomycin c ( fam ) . 
regional isolated limb perfusion of melanoma intransit metastases using mechlorethamine ( nitrogen mustard ) . forty-two patients with intransit metastases of melanoma in a limb were treated by isolated regional perfusion chemotherapy using mechlorethamine ( nitrogen mustard ) . group 1 ( n = 12 ) underwent treatment at low dose , less than 0.35 mg / kg , or low temperature , less than 38 degrees c . group 2 ( n = 30 ) received higher doses , 0.35 to 0.6 mg / kg , plus heat at 38 degrees c to 41 degrees c . no patient had evidence of disease outside the limb at the time of perfusion . the median follow-up time was 48 months ( range , 1 to 9 years ) . of the 42 patients , 29 had measurable lesions that responded as follows : group 1 , complete response ( cr ) in two of ten and partial response ( pr ) in none ; group 2 , cr in six of 19 and pr in six of 19. the combined cr and pr rate of 12 of 19 in group 2 was significantly higher than that of group 1 ( p less than .05 ) . cr lasted only 2 months in the two patients of group 1 , but persisted in the six patients of group 2 , four of whom are still alive free of disease at 16 , 21 , 33 , and 40 months . relapse-free control of disease in the limb was achieved in 36 % of the patients in group 2 at 24 months , compared with 0 % in group 1 ( p less than .05 ) . an overall survival of 74 % at 48 months was observed in group 2 , significantly higher than that of 64 % for group 1 ( p less than .05 ) . the status of the regional lymph nodes ( rln ) and the number of metastases did not affect tumor response . however , 77 % of rln-negative patients survived 48 months , in contrast to only 38 % of rln-positive patients ( p less than .05 ) . one patient died postoperatively of myocardial infarction . no serious systemic toxicity developed . two patients who underwent repeat salvage perfusions developed a reversible peripheral neuropathy in the limb . limb function was good after treatment , and dramatically improved in patients who had advanced satellitosis that responded to treatment . these results suggest that heated limb perfusion using mechlorethamine at an adequate dose can offer long-term control of intransit metastases in approximately one third of these patients , with preservation of good limb function and possible prolongation of survival . 
use of in vitro dose response effects to select antineoplastics for high-dose or regional administration regimens . several preclinical and clinical studies have documented that dose or dose intensity of chemotherapeutic agents are important factors for response of patients ' tumors . this finding has prompted empiric trials of certain chemotherapeutic agents in high-dose or regional administration treatment regimens . the present study was performed to identify agents that would be particularly good candidates for high-dose or regional administration regimens against particular types of tumors . using a human tumor cloning technique , we constructed dose in vitro response lines for ten different chemotherapeutic agents against seven different histologic types of malignancies . slopes of the lines indicated the agents with the greatest increases of in vitro response per increment in dose of the agent . tumors against which the agents gave the steepest dose response lines included lymphoma , head and neck cancer , ovarian cancer , and small-cell lung cancer , while the dose response lines for non-small-cell lung cancer , breast cancer , and colon cancer were quite flat . suggestions for clinical trials based on these findings include the use of high-dose melphalan for patients with lymphoma , head and neck , and ovarian cancer ; the use of mitoxantrone in high-dose regimens for patients with breast cancer ; high-dose cisplatin regimens for patients with small-cell lung cancer ; high-dose bleomycin regimens for patients with non-small-cell lung and head and neck cancer ; and regional perfusion of liver metastases from colorectal cancer with cisplatin . prospective testing of high-dose or regional administration regimens suggested by this new model should indicate its use for prediction of the best agent to use in high-dose regimens against a particular tumor type . 
phase i and pharmacologic study of hexamethylene bisacetamide in patients with advanced cancer . hexamethylene bisacetamide ( hmba , nsc 95580 ) has been demonstrated to be the most effective of the known and studied polar-planar compounds at inducing differentiation in a wide variety of leukemic and nonleukemic cell lines . although hmba demonstrated no antineoplastic activity in preclinical testing , it was selected for clinical development on the basis of its potent differentiating capabilities in vitro . in this phase i study , hmba was administered as a continuous five-day infusion every 3 weeks to patients with advanced cancer . twenty-three patients received 35 evaluable courses at doses that ranged from 4.8 to 33.6 g / m2 / d . dose-limiting toxicities included renal insufficiency , a hyperchloremic metabolic acidemia / acidosis , and cns toxicities manifested by agitation and delirium , which progressed to coma in one patient who developed concomitant renal insufficiency . moderate myelosuppression , mucositis , nausea , and vomiting were also observed . the pharmacokinetics of hmba best fit a single compartmental model and disposition is primarily by renal elimination . renal excretion of hmba and of the primary metabolite , 6-acetoamidohexanoic acid , together account for the disposition of 66 % to 93 % ( mean , 74 % ) of the infused drug . based on this trial , the maximum tolerated and recommended phase ii doses for hmba administered on this schedule are 33.6 and 24 g / m2 / d , respectively . however , since steady-state hmba levels at these doses were in the range of 1 to 2 mmol / l , only approaching the lower limit demonstrated for in vitro differentiating effectiveness , and because of evidence suggesting that the exposure period is an important variable in the induction of differentiation , additional studies examining longer periods of infusion are warranted . 
surgical treatment of spinal cord compression in kidney cancer . forty-three patients with renal-cell carcinoma underwent treatment for spinal cord compression over a 7-year period . of these , 32 patients underwent surgery , while 11 patients underwent radiation alone . before operation , 25 patients had relapsed following prior radiation , while seven others received postoperative radiation . a more aggressive surgical approach , tailored to the site of compression within the spinal canal , was used with the majority undergoing gross total tumor resection by an anterior approach . immediate stability of the spine was achieved with methyl-methacrylate reconstruction of the resected segments . preoperative spinal angiography with embolization of hypervascular tumors was carried out in eight patients . patient parameters in the surgical and irradiated groups were comparable , except that a greater proportion of the radiation alone group had more than one organ system involved ( 64 % v 44 % ) . the median survival of the surgically treated patients was 13 months , compared with 3 months for those treated by radiation alone . in addition , a greater proportion of the surgically treated patients were benefitted neurologically ( 70 % ) compared with those treated by radiation ( 45 % ) . with the development of effective surgical treatment for spinal metastases , early consideration for surgical treatment ( before radiation ) should be considered in selected patients . preoperative spinal angiography and embolization are recommended whenever feasible to minimize intraoperative blood loss . 
dose intensity and response [ letter ] 
radiation therapy for neoplasms of the brain . the effectiveness and complications of radiation therapy for brain neoplasms are reviewed . while the available data suggest a favorable influence and outcome , randomized studies are needed to further optimize radiation therapy techniques and to integrate new therapeutic modalities . 
transient suppression of event-related evoked potentials produced by mild head injury in the cat . studies in humans have shown that sensory stimuli , presented in the context of certain tasks , can elicit a late positive component ( lpc ) , namely p300 , in the scalp-recorded evoked potential believed to reflect neural activity related to attentional processes . a similar lpc has been reported in cats and monkeys . in this study , the lpc of the auditory evoked potential ( aep ) in the cat was used to detect impairment in attention to a relevant stimulus after low levels of cerebral concussion produced by a fluid percussion device . a hollow screw ( for fluid percussion ) and stainless steel screws ( for aep recording ) were surgically placed in the skull . after recovery from surgery , animals were trained in the paradigm to obtain an lpc . pupillary dilation was conditioned to tones . a random sequence of two discriminable tones was presented . the lower tone had a probability of 0.1 and was followed by a tail shock ( tone-shock ) . after 400 to 1000 tone-shock presentations , animals attended to the lower tone stimulus as inferred by selective pupillary dilation . in the aep an early positive component at 50 to 120 msec related to an alerting response was enhanced , and an lpc at 250 to 450 msec appeared in response to the paired tone-shock . animals were then subjected to cerebral concussion . complete recovery of normal reflexes , motor coordination , and orienting response was seen within 2 hours after injury . the lpc was suppressed for a period of at least 3 days , suggesting that low magnitudes of brain injury can disrupt higher-order neural activities . this disruption can persist despite recovery of other neurological functions . 
extensibility of the lumbar and sacral cord . pathophysiology of the tethered spinal cord in cats . tethered spinal cord , or tethered cord syndrome , describes a disorder manifested by progressive motor and sensory deficit in the legs and by incontinence . tethered cord syndrome occurs when the elongated spinal cord is anchored by a thick filum terminale or other pathological structures . the underlying mechanism is impairment of oxidative metabolism in the lumbosacral cord . the authors studied the extensibility of various parts of lumbar , sacral , and coccygeal segments in experimental animals and correlated this with the oxidative metabolism in these segments . the filum terminale possesses far greater extensibility than any spinal cord segments and functions as a buffer in preventing the cord from overstretching . the lumbar , sacral , and coccygeal segments elongate under traction only below the attachment of the lowest pair of dentate ligaments . the lower the cord segment , the greater the percentage of elongation in spite of limited elasticity of the cord tissue ; this greater percentage of elongation of the spinal cord correlates with increasing impairment of the oxidative metabolism and more severe neurological deficit . these findings explain such symptoms and signs as motor and sensory deficits in the legs associated with the human tethered cord syndrome , and correspond with the high clinical incidence of incontinence . the lower spinal cord segments elongated promptly within 3 seconds after the start of traction . this implies that repeated acute hyperextension and hyperflexion , as occurs in humans , may accentuate oxidative metabolic changes that have already been caused by chronic cord tethering . the authors conclude that the elongation of the spinal cord under traction parallels the degree of metabolic dysfunction . 
intravascular balloon embolization of a large mid-basilar artery aneurysm . case report . a patient who presented with multiple episodes of subarachnoid hemorrhage was diagnosed as having a large mid-basilar artery aneurysm that had no definable surgical neck . balloon embolization was performed utilizing two detachable silicone balloons to occlude the mid-basilar artery and the aneurysm . the procedure was carried out with the patient fully awake and alert . one day after the procedure , the patient developed pontine and cerebellar ischemia which completely resolved after 5 days on heparin therapy . a follow-up angiogram performed immediately after the procedure and at 3 months demonstrated complete occlusion of the mid-basilar artery and the aneurysm . the patient was intact neurologically upon discharge 5 days after the embolization procedure and has since resumed his normal activities . balloon embolization therapy may offer some advantages over surgical methods for the treatment of such therapeutically challenging aneurysms . 
chondroma of the cervical spine . case report . the authors report a case of cervical chondroma presenting with a syndrome of spinal cord compression in a 76-year-old woman . total surgical removal of the lesion was followed by partial neurological recovery . chondromas of the vertebral column are rarely reported in the literature . 
elusive tumor of the cauda equina . case report . a patient with a mobile schwannoma of the cauda equina is described . there was considerable discrepancy between the localization of the tumor at myelography and the findings at both initial surgery and repeat myelography , confirmed by definitive surgery . such mobility is rare , but should be kept in mind when surgery is performed for a tumor of the cauda equina . 
cavernous angioma of the cauda equina producing subarachnoid hemorrhage . case report . a case of a cavernous angioma of the cauda equina is presented . the patient was a 28-year-old man who experienced sudden low-back pain and headache without neurological symptoms . lumbar puncture revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage . he had suffered a similar episode 3 years previously . selective spinal angiography did not demonstrate any abnormal vascularity . metrizamide myelography and magnetic resonance imaging were useful in demonstrating the presence of a tumor . laminectomy at l1-3 and total removal of the tumor were performed without neurological deficit . 
pachymeningitis cervicalis hypertrophica . case report . the authors present the case of a 25-year-old man with idiopathic pachymeningitis hypertrophica that caused cervical radiculopathy . decompressive surgery produced significant neurological improvement . the etiology and management of the condition are discussed and the literature is reviewed . 
a direct transnasal approach to the sphenoid sinus . technical note . the transsphenoidal route to the pituitary gland is well established in neurosurgical practice , and several approaches to the sphenoidal air sinus have been described . in this paper , the authors describe a technique that utilizes a direct route through the nasal cavity , thereby minimizing disruption of normal tissues . 
percutaneous automated discectomy : a new method for lumbar disc removal . technical note . a new technique for percutaneous lumbar disc removal is described . the specially designed 2-mm blunt-tipped suction / cutting probe ( nucleotome ) is similar to the automated vitrectomy instrumentation used by ophthalmic surgeons . the procedure is performed under local anesthesia , with the patient in the prone position and with fluoroscopic guidance . the nucleotome is inserted into the appropriate disc space with specially designed instrumentation , guided by landmarks similar to those used in needle placement for chemonucleolysis . the technique has been evaluated in 20 patients with herniated discs ( one at the l3-4 level and 19 at the l4-5 level ) confirmed by myelography and / or computerized tomography scans after all conservative therapy for primarily radicular pain had failed . from 1 to 7 gm of disc material was removed in an average total operative time of approximately 1 hour . eighty percent of the patients had good to excellent results in a short-term follow-up period of 6 months . four patients subsequently required standard surgical excision of free disc fragments . no significant complications occurred . the procedure is contraindicated in patients with extruded or free fragments of disc in the spinal canal or in patients with herniations at the l5-s1 level pending development of additional instrumentation for insertion at that level . more extensive long-term studies are needed to further evaluate this procedure . 
glycerol rhizotomy for trigeminal neuralgia [ letter ] 
omental transplantation for stroke and tia 's [ letter ] 
brain damage from boxing [ letter ] 
epilepsy following ventricular shunt placement [ letter ] 
nasal endoscopes in hypophysectomy [ letter ] 
the significance of unruptured intracranial saccular aneurysms . the authors report the results of a long-term follow-up study of 130 patients with 161 unruptured intracranial saccular aneurysms . their findings suggest that unruptured saccular aneurysms less than 10 mm in diameter have a very low probability of subsequent rupture . the mean diameter of the aneurysms that subsequently ruptured was 21.3 mm , compared with a diameter of 7.5 mm for aneurysms defined after rupture at the same institution . part of the explanation for this discrepancy may be that the size of the filling compartment of the aneurysm decreases after rupture . there is also evidence from the present study that intracranial saccular aneurysms develop with increasing age of the patient and stabilize over a relatively short period , if they do not initially rupture , and that the likelihood of subsequent rupture decreases considerably if the initial stabilized size is less than 10 mm in diameter . consequently , the critical size for aneurysm rupture is likely to be smaller if rupture occurs at the time of or soon after aneurysm formation . there seems to be a substantial difference in potential for growth and rupture between previously ruptured and unruptured aneurysms . 
natural history of postoperative aneurysm rests . in a series of 715 patients operated on by microsurgical techniques for intracranial saccular aneurysms between 1970 and 1980 , part of the aneurysmal sac was not obliterated in 28 aneurysms in 27 patients ( 3.8 % of 715 cases ) . clinical follow-up evaluation for 8 years ( range 4 to 13 years ) and angiographic follow-up studies for 6 years ( range 2 to 10 years ) in these 27 cases revealed that one aneurysm rest increased in size and bled twice , five were spontaneously obliterated , two decreased in size , 13 remained unchanged , and in seven cases no late follow-up angiography was performed . the incidence of rebleeding from an aneurysm rest was 3.7 % of the 27 in whom the sac was not obliterated and 0.14 % of all 715 patients who were operated on . 
the minor leak preceding subarachnoid hemorrhage . thirty-four of 87 consecutive patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage from a cerebral aneurysm had a premonitory minor leak . there were 12 men and 22 women , aged 25 to 73 years ( mean 44.4 years ) . twenty-two had a small and 12 had a large aneurysm located on the internal carotid artery ( 17 cases ) , anterior communicating artery ( 10 cases ) , middle cerebral artery ( five cases ) , and pericallosal artery ( two cases ) . fifty-two percent of patients with a minor leak from an internal carotid artery aneurysm had ipsilateral , hemicranial , hemifacial , or periorbital pain . half of the patients initially saw a physician , but in no case was the correct diagnosis made . twenty-five patients had a major rupture within 24 hours to 4 weeks after findings suggesting a minor leak , with a mortality rate of 53 % . nine other patients were diagnosed by lumbar puncture or computerized tomography ( ct ) scanning after initial misdiagnosis and were operated on , without mortality , before a major rupture could occur . the ct scans were negative in 55 % of patients with a minor leak , but lumbar puncture , when performed , was always positive . a minor leak prior to major aneurysmal rupture is a common occurrence and , if unrecognized , is associated with a high mortality . computerized tomography scanning is unreliable in diagnosing this event , and lumbar puncture is the examination of choice once intracranial hypertension has been ruled out . 
use of detachable balloons for proximal artery occlusion in the treatment of unclippable cerebral aneurysms . of 68 patients with unclippable aneurysms treated by proximal artery occlusion with detachable balloons , permanent occlusion was achieved in 65 ; of these patients , 37 had carotid artery aneurysms below the origin of the ophthalmic artery , 21 had aneurysms arising from the supraclinoid portion of the carotid artery , six had basilar trunk aneurysms , and one had a distal vertebral aneurysm . examination for treatment selection included assessment of the circle of willis by compression angiography and xenon blood flow studies , with the ultimate evaluation being test occlusion under systemic heparinization with the balloon temporarily placed in the desired position . of 67 patients who underwent a formal occlusion test , eight with carotid artery aneurysms did not initially tolerate the occlusion test , and ischemic signs disappeared instantaneously with deflation and removal of the balloon . during test occlusion , two additional patients had ischemic events that proved to be embolic ; these reversed immediately upon balloon deflation . of the 65 patients in whom permanent occlusion was effected by detachable balloon , there were nine instances of delayed cerebral events . one of these was a seizure leading to respiratory arrest and resuscitation 3 days following occlusion in a patient who had presented with seizures . the other eight cases were delayed ischemic events ; seven were completely reversed and one patient had residual weakness in one leg ( 1.5 % permanent morbidity ) . extracranial-intracranial bypass procedures were performed in 25 of the 65 cases . all aneurysms of the carotid artery below the level of the ophthalmic artery presented angiographic proof of complete thrombosis . ten of 21 aneurysms arising from the supraclinoid portion of the carotid artery were completely thrombosed by proximal occlusion alone , without additional trapping procedures . similarly , in three of six basilar trunk aneurysms , proximal occlusion alone initiated complete aneurysm thrombosis without trapping . the conclusion is that proximal balloon occlusion for unclippable cerebral aneurysms is a convenient , safe , and effective way of producing arterial occlusion in these cases . 
primary spinal melanoma . the records of five patients with primary melanoma of the spinal cord were reviewed . the tumor most frequently presented as an intramedullary middle or lower thoracic cord lesion . the average duration of symptoms before pathological diagnosis was 29 months , and the average survival after laminectomy and radiation therapy was 6 years 7 months . the findings in this series , when compared with those in the literature , suggest that primary spinal melanoma is a more indolent malignancy than previously reported or than melanoma metastatic to the central nervous system . 
meningeal melanocytoma . case report and review of the clinical and histological features . a melanin-producing , encapsulated , histologically benign-appearing tumor of the trigeminal nerve was surgically removed from a 9-year-old boy . it recurred 6 months later and was then subtotally resected and treated with radiation therapy . the clinical and pathological features of this and 10 similar cases reported in the literature are reviewed . these tumors are best categorized as meningeal melanocytomas . 
temporoparietal craniopagus . case report and review of the literature . a case of craniopagus twins joined in the temporoparietal area is presented , along with a review of the literature on craniopagus . a large area of brain was shared between the neurologically normal infants , with defects in the scalp , skull , and dura . the twins were separated in a three-step procedure . first , areas of shared brain were divided and separated with silicone sheets . the second procedure consisted of the insertion of scalp expanders to allow primary skin closure . in the third procedure complete separation was performed which was complicated by severe hypotension in one infant that was due to dural sinus hemorrhage . cerebrospinal fluid leak was the most difficult problem encountered in the postoperative period ; this was treated with lumboperitoneal and ventriculoperitoneal shunts . after 2 years , one twin is neurologically normal ; the other is severely developmentally delayed , possibly related to the severe hypotension experienced during the third procedure . a review of the literature on craniopagus is presented . analysis of data in the literature suggests that the area involved in the craniopagus as well as the venous connections are closely related to survival following separation of craniopagus twins . 
a review of the factors influencing the prognosis of medulloblastoma . the importance of cell differentiation . the clinical , therapeutic , and histological features of 54 patients with medulloblastoma were analyzed retrospectively by a multivariate approach with regard to prognosis . the overall 5-year survival rate was 60 % , with 48 % of patients free of recurrence at 5 years . cell differentiation , when present , was associated with a significantly longer recurrence-free period . seventy-two percent of patients with the histological finding of cell differentiation were recurrence-free at 5 years . a marginally significant increase in the 5-year survival rate was also seen in association with differentiation . only 34 % of the patients whose tumor exhibited necrosis were alive at 5 years . there was no statistically significant difference in 5-year survival for children under 3 years of age or for the group of children aged 5 years or under . however , a significantly larger fraction ( 72 % ) of the group aged 5 years or under had a recurrence-free period of 5 years or more . other factors including sex , extent of surgical resection . chang tumor stage , posterior fossa radiation dose , and adjuvant chemotherapy did not influence prognosis . 
neurosurgical use of human dura mater sterilized by gamma rays and stored in alcohol : long-term results . surgical experience with grafts of human dura mater sterilized by gamma rays and preserved in alcohol is reported in 804 cases . the method of graft preparation is a simple , cheap , and practical technique for making available a plentiful quantity of large and small pieces of dura to use for plastic reconstruction in everyday neurosurgical practice . annual inspection for sterility and immunogenicity over an 18-year period indicates that this system of preservation is valid for an unlimited period of time . 
craniotomy flap osteomyelitis : a diagnostic approach . nine cases of suspected craniotomy flap osteomyelitis evaluated by combined bone and gallium scanning are presented . in six cases , the clinical data were inconclusive and evaluation by radionuclide imaging provided an accurate negative diagnosis . the other three cases considered positive by this technique were proven infected at subsequent exploration and flap removal . the use of radionuclide bone and gallium imaging should be considered in cases of possible craniotomy flap osteomyelitis . 
sex-specific criteria for interpretation of thallium-201 myocardial uptake and washout studies . a study was undertaken to determine the effect of gender on criteria for the quantitative analysis of exercise-redistribution 201tl myocardial scintigraphy . the studies of 26 normal females and 23 normal males were subjected to bilinear interpolative background subtraction and horizontal profile analysis . significant sexual differences were found in both regional uptake ratios and washout rates . these differences primarily reflected a proportionately decreased anterior and upper septal uptake in females , and faster washout in females . faster myocardial 201tl washout rates in females could not be clearly ascribed to either a physiological or artifactual explanation . it is concluded that since important differences exist between males and females in the detected pattern of 201tl myocardial uptake and washout , sex-specific criteria may enhance the predictive accuracy of exercise-redistribution 201tl myocardial scintigraphy . 
effect of antibiotic therapy on the sensitivity of indium-111-labeled leukocyte scans . although 111in-labeled leukocytes have been shown to be a useful technique for detecting infection , it has been postulated that antibiotic therapy may reduce the sensitivity of the leukocyte scan . many patients with suspected bacterial infections are placed on antibiotics before a definite site of infection has been identified . three hundred twelve leukocyte scans on 271 patients were retrospectively reviewed and classified as positive or negative , and as to whether or not they were being treated with antibiotics at the time the leukocyte scan was performed . the overall sensitivity , considering all 312 studies , was 90 % . one hundred sixty-nine patient studies were on patients receiving antibiotics ; 143 studies were on patients not on antibiotics . the sensitivity of the leukocyte scan was 88.7 % in patients on antibiotic therapy ; it was 92.1 % in those who were not receiving antibiotics . the differences in sensitivity between the two groups were not significantly different ( p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that antibiotic therapy does not affect the sensitivity of the 111in-labeled leukocyte scan . 
imaging of medullary thyroid carcinoma and hyperfunctioning adrenal medulla using iodine-131 metaiodobenzylguanidine . scintigraphy with radiolabeled metaiodobenzylguanidine was performed in a patient with men type iia having a pheochromocytoma of the right adrenal gland , adrenomedullary hyperplasia of the left adrenal gland and a primary medullary thyroid carcinoma . the scintigraphic findings demonstrate visualization of all the above mentioned pathologies . 
hepatic angiosarcoma : mimicking of angioma on three-phase technetium-99m red blood cell scintigraphy . a [ 99mtc ] rbc study in a 63-yr-old man showed intrahepatic lesions which initially had less activity than surrounding liver tissue . when viewed 3 hr later , these had " reversed " and the lesions revealed increased uptake of the radiolabeled red cells . some extrahepatic areas showed the same pattern ( these were in the mesentery of the small bowel ) . the lesions proved to be angiosarcomas . hence , the behavior of labeled red cells in these angiosarcomas mimicked that in benign hemangiomas . 
indium-111 leukocyte scintigraphy in wegener 's granulomatosis involving the spleen . indium-111-labeled leukocyte scintigraphy was performed on a 44-yr-old man to exclude an occult abscess . four- and twenty-four-hour images of the abdomen revealed splenic photopenia except for a rim of activity medially . a subsequent computed tomography ( ct ) study demonstrated necrosis or hemorrhage of the spleen except for a medial rim . exploratory laparotomy demonstrated necrotizing vasculitis with granuloma formation consistent with wegener 's granulomatosis and a rim of viable splenic tissue corresponding to the radionuclide and ct studies . 
iodination of monoclonal antibodies for diagnosis and radiotherapy using a convenient one vial method . we have developed a convenient system that can be used to iodinate monoclonal antibodies for diagnosis or therapy . a vial , previously coated with 1 , 3 , 4 , 6-tetrachloro-3a , 6a-diphenyl glycouril ( iodogen ) , is used as a reaction vessel . iodination and separation of bound and free iodide , using ag1-x8 ion exchange resin , are both accomplished in this vial . we found 90 + / - 4 % of the iodide which was added was incorporated , respectively , into each of four different monoclonal antibodies evaluated . approximately 90 % of labeled antibody was recovered in each case . the monoclonal antibody oc125 was labeled to specific activities up to 25 mci / mg . immunoreactivities of 82 + / - 2 % using 125i and 66 + / - 5 % using 131i were achieved . as the radioiodination is done in one sealed vial and takes less than 15 min , this procedure is safe and can be performed in any nuclear medicine laboratory . the final product , which is sterile and apyrogenic , is suitable for diagnostic and radiotherapeutic applications . 
comparison of left ventricular diastolic function as determined by nuclear cardiac probe , radionuclide angiography , and contrast cineangiography . in this investigation , determinations of peak diastolic filling rate ( pdfr ) and ejection fraction ( ef ) by two distinct nuclear techniques--gated radionuclide angiography ( rna ) and nuclear cardiac probe ( ncp ) --were compared with contrast ventriculography in 44 patients with coronary artery disease ( cad ) . in addition , pdfr was tested as a potential index of the severity of disease . good agreement in pdfr was found between ncp and contrast ventriculography ( r = 0.83 , p less than 0.001 ) , but there was poor correlation between rna and contrast ventriculography . ejection fraction measured by either rna or ncp correlated well with contrast ventriculography ( r = 0.96 and r = 0.73 , respectively ) . a positive correlation was found between pdfr and the ef measured by the ncp ( r = 0.79 ) and by contrast ventriculography ( r = 0.64 ) , but poor correlation was found between these parameters by rna . patients with multivessel cad had lower pdfr than patients with single vessel disease when studied by the ncp ( 1.6 + / - 0.4 versus 2.5 versus 0.6 edv / sec [ mean + / - s.d. ] , p less than 0.0001 ) , but not by rna . thus , compared with contrast ventriculography , determination of pdfr is more accurate by ncp than by rna . furthermore , the pdfr measured by ncp , but not by rna , may be a potentially useful index of the extent of cad . 
perfusion patterns in dementia [ letter ] 
in vivo versus in vitro labeling of red blood cells in hepatic cavernous hemangioma [ letter ] 
acute toxicity to vehicle in commercial radiothyronines [ letter ] 
renal handling of technetium-99m dmsa : further evidence for glomerular filtration and proximal tubular reabsorption [ letter ] 
failure of a trial of oral phosphate to enhance parathyroid adenoma detectability on dual isotope scintigraphy [ letter ] 
blood coagulation changes in homocystinuria : effects of pyridoxine and other specific therapy . the aim of this study was to investigate the blood coagulation changes in three patients with homocystinuria , in baseline condition and during therapy . at baseline , antithrombin iii activity and factor vii levels were reduced in all three patients ; antithrombin iii protein and protein c antigen were also slightly lowered in one patient , and factor x in another . beta-thromboglobulin , a measure of platelet activation , was increased in one case . during pyridoxine treatment , antithrombin iii activity was rapidly restored to normal ; factor vii increased and beta-thromboglobulin decreased . these data suggest that , in addition to platelet activation , abnormalities of blood clotting , and particularly reduction of antithrombin iii , may play a role in the thrombotic tendency associated with homocystinuria . the nature of these clotting alterations is still uncertain , but their improvement during active metabolic treatment suggests that the defect in amino acid transsulfuration of homocystinuria may directly affect synthesis or activity of some liver-dependent clotting factors . 
petechiae and urticaria after dtp vaccination : detection of circulating immune complexes containing vaccine-specific antigens [ published erratum appears in j pediatr 1987 jul ; 111 ( 1 ) : 162 ] 
severe hemorrhage in a patient with gray platelet syndrome . 
expiratory flow limitation in infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia . we evaluated lung function in 20 infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia ( bpd ) during the first year of life . compared with a group of age- and size-matched controls , the infants with bpd had a significantly ( p less than 0.005 ) lower functional residual capacity ( frc ; 25 + / - 4 vs 18 + / - 6 ml / kg ) at less than 10 1 / 2 months after conception , but no significant difference during the remainder of the first year . the partial expiratory flow volume curves in the infants with bpd were markedly concave , with tidal breathing approaching expiratory flow limitation . the infants with bpd had significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) lower absolute and size-corrected flows than did control infants , and 50 % of the infants with bpd required rehospitalization because of acute respiratory distress associated with a lower respiratory tract illness . in addition , the slope of the linear regression of maximal expiratory flow at frc ( in milliliters per second ) vs length ( in centimeters ) was significantly lower ( p less than 0.001 ) for the infants with bpd than for normal control infants ( 2.25 vs 4.52 ) , indicating poor growth of the airways . oxygen saturation ( sao2 was negatively correlated with maximal expiratory flow at frc , indicating that measurement of sao2 alone may not be sufficient in the evaluation of lung function in infants with bpd . we conclude that , although infants with bpd improve clinically during the first year of life , they have abnormal functional airway growth ; the decreased expiratory flow reserve helps to explain their high risk for acute respiratory distress during lower respiratory tract illness . 
granulocyte-macrophage progenitor cells in term and preterm neonates . in groups of adults , and term and preterm neonates , we determined : the blood concentration , the proliferative rate , and the variety of progeny of committed granulocyte-macrophage progenitor cells ( cfu-gm ) . in five of eight term neonates and in all premature infants , a potentially significant limitation of neutrophil production was detected . unlike the slowly proliferating cfu-gm present in the blood of healthy adult subjects ( 7 % thymidine suicide , range 0 % to 32 % ) , the circulating cfu-gm in the premature subjects were proliferating at a near maximal rate ( 55 % , range 40 % to 75 % , p less than 0.001 ) . because cfu-gm proliferation is nearly maximal in the baseline , noninfected state , neonates may have restricted ability to increase neutrophil production from cfu-gm during times of increased neutrophil need , such as during bacterial infection . such inability may predispose neonates to exhaustion of the neutrophil supply during bacterial infection . 
pulse oximetry for continuous oxygen monitoring in sick newborn infants . we studied 54 neonates with acute cardiorespiratory illness and 21 infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia , to evaluate the accuracy of a nonheated pulse oximeter in predicting arterial oxygen saturation ( sao2 ) . we also studied the accuracy of transcutaneous oxygen tension ( tcpo2 ) in estimating arterial oxygen tension ( pao2 ) in infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia . we compared pulse oximeter sao2 with simultaneously measured sao2 ( range 78 % to 100 % ) using a co-oximeter . over a wide range of values for heart rate , blood pressure , hematocrit , po2 , pco2 , and ph , linear regression analysis revealed a close correlation between in vivo pulse oximeter readings and in vitro sao2 measurements in patients with acute ( r = 0.86 , y = 29.64 + 0.68x ) and chronic ( r = 0.91 , y = 6.29 + 0.96x ) disease . regression analysis of tcpo2 versus pao2 showed an r value of 0.76 in infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia . in these patients the mean difference between pulse oximeter sao2 and in vitro sao2 was 2.9 % + / - 1.8 % ( sd ) , whereas the mean difference between tcpo2 and pao2 was -14.5 + / - 11.1 mm hg . fetal hemoglobin ranged from 4.3 % to 95 % . we conclude that pulse oximetry is an appropriate alternative to tcpo2 for continuous oxygen monitoring in newborn infants with acute cardiorespiratory illnesses and chronic lung disease . 
meningitis associated with serial lumbar punctures and post-hemorrhagic hydrocephalus . 
locus of control as predictor of compliance and outcome in treatment of encopresis . we examined the effectiveness of instruments that describe a child 's locus of control and perceived self-competence as predictors of outcome in the treatment of encopresis . fifty children 9 to 12 years of age completed such instruments prior to clinical interview . clinicians were blind as to the results of these questionnaires and administered a standard encopresis protocol to all patients . six to 17 months later , 45 ( 90 % ) of the patient 's parents were interviewed to assess compliance and treatment outcome . children who significantly improved had a more internal locus of control ( p less than 0.05 ) and better compliance ( p less than 0.05 ) as determined by two separate outcome variables . locus of control and compliance were not , however , significantly correlated with each other ; each appeared to have an independent association with outcome . there was no association between perceived self-competence and outcome . the positive association between locus of control and outcome was not mediated by socioeconomic status , age , duration of encopresis , severity of encopresis , gender , or time between initiation of treatment and follow-up . measurement of locus of control in children with encopresis appears to be helpful in identifing a group at high risk for resistance of treatment . 
child abuse and recurrent infant apnea . 
psychogenic upper airway obstruction presenting as refractory wheezing . 
clinical genetics conference : progress in understanding muscle disease . 
neuropathologic changes in ornithine carbamoyl transferase deficiency [ letter ] 
galactosemia caused by generalized uridine diphosphate galactose-4-epimerase deficiency [ letter ] 
faulty statistical analysis [ letter ] 
adverse reactions and antibody responses to acellular pertussis vaccine . two types of acellular pertussis vaccine are used in japan : the filamentous hemagglutinin ( f-ha ) predominant type and the pertussis toxin ( pt ) -f-ha type . we tested one lot of vaccine from each of three manufacturers ( lots a and b , f-ha predominant type ; lot c , pt-f-ha type ) . one hundred fifteen healthy children between the ages of 3 months and 23 months were immunized with one of the three lots of acellular pertussis vaccine to assess adverse reactions and antibody responses . the incidence of fever ( temperature greater than or equal to 38 degrees c ) was 2.6 % for lot a , 1.2 % for lot b , and 2.5 % for lot c . the incidence of local reactions greater than 5 cm in diameter was 1.9 % for lot a , 2.4 % for lot b , and 3.3 % for lot c . thus no significant differences in adverse reaction were observed . the anti-pt antibody responses in the tested vaccines were equal to or greater than those in patients with pertussis in the convalescent stage , and the anti-f-ha antibody responses were far higher than those of convalescing patients . lot c produced the highest anti-pt antibody , and lot a the highest anti-f-ha antibody . 
detection of congenital hypopituitary hypothyroidism : ten-year experience in the northwest regional screening program . we examined the results of the northwest regional screening program ( nwrsp ) over its first 10 years to determine whether the detection of hypopituitary hypothyroidism is a justified advantage of the primary thyroxine ( t4 ) -supplemental thyroid-stimulating hormone ( tsh ) screening strategy , and to determine whether all such infants will be detected by this screening approach . between may 1975 and may 1985 , the nwrsp screened 850 , 431 infants , detecting 192 infants with primary hypothyroidism ( 1 : 4429 ) and eight with hypopituitary hypothyroidism ( 1 : 106 , 304 ) . in 11 additional infants , tsh deficiency , not detected by the screening program , was diagnosed on recognition of clinical features over the same period . thyroid hormone treatment was begun in seven of the 11 infants prior to obtaining the screening sample results because of clinical symptoms of hypopituitarism , including hypoglycemia , persistent jaundice , microgenitalia , diabetes insipidus , midface hypoplasia , cleft lip or palate , or abnormalities of vision . the other four infants were not detected despite clinical features of hypopituitarism ( in retrospect ) and low serum t4 with tsh concentration below assay sensitivity on at least one screening sample . the most accurate assessment of total cases comes from oregon , where all cases of congenital hypopituitarism are referred to our center ; we estimate a frequency of 1 : 29 , 000. in our experience , a combination of newborn t4-supplemental tsh screening measurements and recognition of clinical features of hypopituitarism is the optimal strategy for detecting infants with congenital hypopituitary hypothyroidism . 
longitudinal study of 18 children with perinatal lav / htlv iii infection : attempt at prognostic evaluation . we performed a longitudinal study ( mean follow-up 19.5 months , range 3 to 42 months ) in 18 consecutive children with clinical symptoms of lav / htlv iii infection . twelve patients were born to mothers infected with lav / htlv iii , and six were infected by blood products administered during the first weeks of life . immunologic studies included lymphocyte markers , in vitro responses to mitogens and antigens with corresponding skin tests , and antibody response with isoagglutinins , post-vaccination antibodies , and candida . a serologic profile of antibody to gp110 , p18 , and p25 lav / htlv iii antigens by radioimmunoprecipitation assay was also performed . the antigen-induced proliferative responses were normal in 10 patients who had a stable course , but were profoundly impaired in eight others who died or had poor condition with opportunistic infections . these in vitro measurements were well correlated with antigen skin tests . an abnormal antibody response to antigens , a low level of isoagglutinins , and a peculiar profile of lav / htlv iii antibodies were also frequently observed in these eight patients . these measurements appear to be of prognostic value because they were noticed soon after onset of clinical symptoms . 
role of genital mycoplasmas in young infants with suspected sepsis . to establish the prevalence of mycoplasma hominis and ureaplasma urealyticum in infants up to 3 months of age with suspected sepsis , blood , cerebrospinal fluid , and urine specimens from 203 patients with clinical signs and symptoms of sepsis were cultured for mycoplasma in addition to routine bacterial cultures . proved bacterial infections were identified in 24 patients , four of whom had bacteremia . m . hominis and u . urealyticum were not isolated from any of the 191 blood and 199 csf specimens tested . of 170 specimens of urine cultured for mycoplasma , m . hominis was isolated in six patients , u . urealyticum in nine patients , and both organisms in one patient . twelve of the positive cultures were voided urine specimens , and four were suprapubic bladder aspiration specimens . genital mycoplasmas appear to be uncommon causes of sepsis or meningitis in young infants . further studies are required to assess their role in abnormal conditions of the urinary tract in childhood . 
magnetic resonance imaging of intracranial injuries from child abuse . magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) and computed tomography ( ct ) were compared in four children who had evidence of intracranial injury caused by shaking . all children had intracranial bleeding , neurologic impairment , and history or physical examination findings suggestive of child abuse . three had bilateral retinal hemorrhages , and three had visual impairment . mri revealed bilateral subdural hematomas in all four children , but ct showed this in only one . skull fractures in one patient were visualized by ct alone . mri alone demonstrated posterior fossa bleeding in one patient and intraparenchymal bleeding in another ; an additional patient in whom ct showed relatively diffuse atrophy also had defined areas of focal atrophy apparent on mri . subarachnoid hemorrhages were equally well detected using ct or mri . overall , mri was superior to ct for detection of intracranial injury caused by shaking , and may help to document milder instances of this form of child abuse . 
successful management of post-cesarean-section acute pseudoobstruction of the colon ( ogilvie 's syndrome ) with colonoscopic decompression . a case report . although acute pseudoobstruction of the colon is a rare entity , a large percentage of the reported cases have occurred following obstetric and gynecologic surgical procedures . early recognition is mandatory to avoid severe and potentially fatal complications and can allow successful decompression by means of colonoscopy , thus avoiding surgical intervention , as in the case reported on here . 
treatment of disseminated herpes simplex virus in pregnancy with parenteral acyclovir . a case report . disseminated herpes simplex virus infection in a pregnant woman was successfully treated with acyclovir . similar reported cases have suggested that acyclovir may be suitable for the treatment of disseminated or severe primary herpes in pregnant women . 
acute myocardial infarction in a young woman taking oral contraceptives . a case report . acute myocardial infarction occurred in a 25-year-old woman . coronary angiography performed one month after the acute illness was normal . an ergonovine test was negative . the patient 's acute myocardial infarction most probably was induced by the use of oral contraceptives in combination with heavy smoking . oral contraceptives , with their known influence on the blood coagulation system , must be considered a risk factor in precipitating coronary artery disease . 
endometrial biopsy in the infertility investigation . the experience at two institutions . the combined experience at two institutions was reviewed to evaluate endometrial biopsy and the prognosis for pregnancies affected by endometrial sampling during the cycle of conception . in the evaluation of 1 , 084 patients , 1 , 174 biopsies were performed . twenty-seven endometrial biopsies were done during the cycle of conception , with spontaneous abortion occurring in six cases ( 22.2 % ) . multiple diagnoses were made ( including luteal phase defects , endometritis and polyps ) , and interruption of pregnancy occurred . several cases illustrate disturbing complications . methods of minimizing pregnancy interruption and patient discomfort are available . 
computed tomographic pelvimetry . pelvimetry can be performed on a computed tomographic ( ct ) scanner using anteroposterior and lateral scanned projection radiographs ( scout view ) plus a single ct slice through the low pelvis . this technique yields accurate measurements of the maternal pelvis that do not need compensation for magnification . the fetal lie and presentation can be easily assessed , along with the fetal neck for hyperextension . in addition , the total radiation dose to both mother and fetus is significantly lower than with routine plain film pelvimetry . since the procedure is quick , easy to perform and competitive in cost , ct pelvimetry should be the procedure of choice in those rare instances in which pelvimetry is indicated . 
deceptive vulvar papillomavirus infection . a possible explanation for certain cases of vulvodynia . use of the colposcope for vulvar and vaginal examination in four cases of long-standing vulvodynia led to the identification of lesions with an unusual appearance . in the vulvar vestibule , epithelial projections resembling cactus , camel humps or stony colonial pavement were observed . in the vagina , the lesions looked more like cerebral folds . biopsies of these lesions showed histopathologic changes diagnostic of human papillomavirus infection , scored according to reid 's criteria . in one case , capsid antigen was detected with the peroxidase technique in the nuclei of the superficial cells . past history and positive findings in the sexual partners of some of the patients suggested long-standing herpesvirus activity in the lower genital tract . in some cases of recalcitrant vulvodynia , colposcopic examination of the vulva and vagina may lead to a viral explanation for symptoms previously considered psychosomatic in origin . 
a new technique for alcohol injection in the vulva . the technique of alcohol injection in the vulva is reserved for the attempted relief of pruritus vulvae in patients who have failed to respond to a conscientious trial of medical therapy . the procedure is time-consuming , but the operative time can be shortened significantly if a transparent adhesive drape with a grid drawn on it is applied to the vulva before injection . 
selected issvd ( international society for the study of vulvar disease ) abstracts . 
estrogen and progesterone receptor assays on the vulvar epithelium . seventy-seven samples of healthy and diseased vulvar epithelium ( one per patient ) were processed using the carbon-coated-dextran biochemical technique . the results were analyzed according to scatchard or the unique point technique . the samples of normal tissue were obtained from patients who underwent surgical procedures for different gynecologic pathologies . the samples of diseased tissue were obtained with punch biopsy from patients with several vulvar disorders . ten samples were obtained from the episiotomy wound in pregnant patients during labor . estrogen receptors were assayed in all cases . progesterone receptors were assayed simultaneously in 73 of the cases . the minimum concentration considered positive was 2 fmol / mg of protein . a map of the vulvar region was drawn , and samples were obtained from different sites whenever possible . 
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and recurrent thrombosis in pregnancy . a case report . heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thromboembolism calls for an immediate substitution of the heparin with other potent anticoagulants , such as coumarin derivatives . the occurrence of this adverse effect in pregnancy poses an additional dilemma because the use of coumarin derivatives is not acceptable during pregnancy , while other medications may not be as effective . in a pregnant patient treated with mucous sodium heparin for deep vein thrombosis , recurrent heparin-induced thrombosis and disseminated intravascular coagulation ( dic ) occurred . replacing the heparin with a different brand of the same drug resulted in reversal of the dic and in clinical improvement . if severe heparin-induced thrombosis occurs in a patient in whom anticoagulation with other drugs is contraindicated , substituting one brand of heparin for another could be of value . 
national survey of writers of dean 's letters for residency applications . the purpose of the study reported here was to provide descriptive information about dean 's letters , which are comprehensive summary letters sent near the end of students ' undergraduate medical training by medical school deans to be part of the students ' residency applications . deans of student affairs at 124 u.s. medical schools were surveyed regarding composition of these letters at their institution . they were asked to describe themselves and the letters they write . responses were received from 87 percent of these schools and provided data on types of information included in the letters , the decision to edit evaluations , student participation in the letter-writing process , use of final summary statements , cost and length of letters , and attitudes toward the development of national letter-writing guidelines . major findings of the survey show that 97 percent of the writers allocated more space for clinical evaluations than basic science evaluations . less than 50 percent of the writers included the student 's class rank . almost all included narrative evaluations of the student 's performance during the clinical years . negative information on students was addressed inconsistently by the writers . eighty-five percent of the writers categorized their students in final summary statements , but many of these failed to provide descriptions of the categories used or explanatory data . the present authors make recommendations for writing more credible and useful letters . 
policies of u.s. medical schools on the use of the nbme part i and part ii examinations . the study reported here provides information on national board of medical examiners ( nbme ) examination policies from all u.s. medical schools ( n = 67 ) that require students to pass the examination . most of these schools have similar policies on use of a 380 total score as the passing level for the nbme part i examination , allowing three attempts to pass the examination , interrupting a student 's progress into the clinical curriculum upon failure of the examination , officially providing time for preparation for taking the test , and requiring students to pass the part ii examination . 
mental health education in three primary care specialties . the authors used a questionnaire to examine the characteristics of the mental health components of residency training in traditional internal medicine , primary care internal medicine , and family practice . traditional internal medicine programs relied almost exclusively on the consultation method and inpatient facilities , offered little formal instruction , used the psychiatrist as the primary teacher , and spent considerably less per resident for mental health training than the other programs . psychologists and social workers as a group were the primary mental health teachers in family medicine residencies . traditional internal medicine programs emphasized psychophysiological reactions and simple pharmacotherapy , while primary care internal medicine and family practice programs concentrated on life cycle issues , psychosocial awareness , and simple psychosocial management techniques . none of the three types of residencies focused on complex psychiatric disorders or management techniques . the three specialties differed significantly ( f = 13 , p = .0001 ) in the total amount of time on average the resident spent in formal mental health instruction . the need for evaluation of the outcome of training is also discussed . 
long-term evaluation of training residents in clinical teaching skills . in the present study , the authors examined the long-term effectiveness of a course for residents on how to teach students , patients , and peers . residents of various specialties attended a mandatory short course on clinical teaching skills in the middle of their first year of postgraduate medical training . three types of evaluation data were collected at three times during a two-year period : self-ratings by the residents , questionnaires completed by the residents , and ratings completed by students taught by the residents . complete data for 18 residents indicated that the residents rated their teaching skills significantly higher after the course ( at the end of both the first year and the second year ) than before it . at the end of the second year , 94 percent of the residents stated that the course was helpful , 67 percent could recall and explain specific principles of teaching , and 61 percent reported using principles from the course in their teaching . students ' ratings of these 18 residents were too scanty to be interpreted validly . the study suggests that residents of varying specialties can profit from an introductory course on teaching skills and that the effects endure for at least one and a half years . 
models for continuing professional education . three models for continuing professional education ( cpe ) are described : an education model , which reflects the mainstream of cpe practice and focuses on educational objectives , teaching methods , organization of educational experiences , and assessment ; a social change model , which considers the total environment in which cpe occurs ; and a problem-based model , which focuses on the professional context and order of complexity of professional problems . each model is described , and its strengths and drawbacks as applied to continuing medical education are discussed . 
performance on the nbme part ii examination and career choice . 
unrecognized responses and feelings of residents and fellows during interviews of patients . 
diagnosis formulation by residents and physicians at different levels of experience . 
federal policy for biomedical and behavioral research [ editorial ] 
aamc longitudinal study of 1960 medical school graduates : a 20-year effort in 28 schools , 1956-1976 [ editorial ] 
suspected vascular trauma of the extremities : the role of arteriography in proximity injuries . we reviewed 72 patients with penetrating trauma to the extremities who underwent arteriography for proximity injury only . none of the patients had clinical evidence of vascular trauma . there were 62 males and ten females , with a mean age of 29.9 years . gunshot wounds were the most common cause of injury ( 91.7 % ) and the thigh was the most common site of injury ( 47.2 % ) . a normal arteriogram was found in 55 of 72 patients ( 76.4 % ) . the remaining 17 patients ( 23.6 % ) had arteriographic abnormalities that did not warrant surgery . only one patient was explored ( 1.4 % ) for spasm of the popliteal artery . no vascular injury was found at surgery . this study suggests that routine arteriography in proximity injury only may be unnecessary and that these patients could safely be admitted to the hospital for a 24-hour period of observation . 
hepatic glycolytic intermediates in fed and fasted rats after severe hemorrhage . the responses of key liver carbohydrate intermediates to severe hemorrhage were investigated in fed and fasted young adult male rats . forty per cent of intravascular blood was withdrawn and liver was sampled by freeze-clamp at 0 , 0.25 , 1.0 , 3.0 , and 4.0-5.0 hours . fed rats with abundant glycogen showed a threefold increase in glucose-6-phosphate ( g6p ) concentration , and fasted rats showed a 75 % decline in g6p immediately after hemorrhage . this significant difference in response traces to the fact that g6p is one of the first catabolites in fed liver formed by glycogenolysis but is the last intermediate of the gluconeogenic pathway in fasted animals . phosphoenolpyruvate ( pep ) , the high-energy intermediate , was markedly depleted in both fed and fasted rats at zero time . in the fasted animal , however , the pep was rapidly restored , and by 1.0 hour was threefold above normal . the ability of fasted rats to rapidly synthesize glucose from accumulated lactate is attributed to increased amount of gluconeogenic enzymes induced by fasting . in prolonged shock states , this synthetic capacity plays a protective role . contrariwise , in brief shock states such as hemorrhage , the immediate availability of glucose from stored glycogen appears to be a more important determinant of survival . in the present experiments , fed rats were more resistant to the hemorrhage protocol . 
the surgical clerkship and medical student education in trauma . 
new york state mandatory seatbelt use law : patterns of seatbelt use before and after legislation . a mandatory seatbelt use law , the first such law in the nation , became fully in force in new york state as of 1 january , 1985. we studied seatbelt use among drivers and front seat passengers involved in motor vehicle accidents for a 3-month period pre-legislation ( phase 1 ) , and a 5-month period post-legislation ( phase 2 ) , to determine if this type of compulsory law , providing civil fines of $ 50 for violators , changes seatbelt use behavior . the reported use rate among drivers rose from 21 % pre-legislation to 47 % post-legislation ( p less than 0.01 ) . the use rate among front seat passengers rose from 21 % to 40 % ( not significantly different due to the small number of occupants recorded in this position ) . a highway survey ( phase 3 ) noted the use rate in new york city and surrounding counties to be 63 % , a marked increase from the published pre-legislation value of 16 % . we conclude that mandatory seatbelt use legislation is effective in significantly increasing seatbelt use and urge physicians to seek similar legislation in every state . 
clinical experience with percutaneous tracheostomy and cricothyroidotomy in 100 patients . ninety-four cases of percutaneous tracheostomy and six cases of percutaneous cricothyroidotomy are reported in this study . there was one death attributable to the use of the device . a complication rate of 14 % is reported . clinical use for the adult and pediatric patient is reported . the procedure is compared to the standard dissection tracheostomy method of chevalier jackson . this procedure has several advantages over the standard dissection method , the most significant of which appears to be the speed with which it can be performed . it can be done in 30 seconds , as opposed to the dissection procedure which requires 3 minutes or more for a surgeon to complete it . autopsies on 14 of these patients are discussed . long-term followup , that is for 1 year and more , is reported in 19 cases . advantages of the percutaneous technique over the standard dissection technique are detailed . 
fracture dislocation of the femoral head treated by open reduction and internal fixation . two patients who sustained posterior and anterior fracture dislocations of the femoral head , respectively , are reported . each case was treated by open reduction and internal fixation of the fracture fragments . with this operative approach excellent results have been achieved on medium-term followup . 
bilateral rupture of the patella tendon in an otherwise healthy male patient following minor trauma . a case of bilateral patella tendon rupture in an otherwise healthy 38-year-old man who sustained relatively minor trauma is presented . a flexion moment against a contracted or contracting quadriceps muscle is thought to have been the mechanism of injury . a survey of the literature yielded reports of three other cases of otherwise healthy patients who had had bilateral simultaneous disruption of the patella tendons . 
traumatic dislocation of the tibialis posterior tendon at the ankle level . we report one case of traumatic dislocation of the tibialis posterior tendon at the ankle level as a lesion of an exceptional rarity which was successfully treated by performing a flap of inverted periosteum . the pathogenetic mechanisms involved , on the basis of the results of anatomic and electromyographic studies performed , appear to be a combination of exertion of the tibialis posterior and hypoplasia of the sulcus . 
gunshot wound of the left chest and bochdalek hernia . a 16-year-old male presented with a hemopneumothorax following a gunshot wound to the left chest . he was treated effectively with closed suction drainage for 48 hours when he suddenly complained of severe left chest pain . preoperative diagnosis was suggestive of a traumatic diaphragmatic hernia but operative findings were confirmatory of a rare hernia through the foramen of bochdalek . chest x-ray showing a gas-filled viscus above the diaphragm is diagnostic . increased abdominal pressure generated when he was first hit by the bullet and aggravated by increased negative intrapleural pressure resulting from suction drainage of the hemothorax is the probable mechanism of the herniation . 
evaluation of traumatic mesenteric hemorrhage in a hemophiliac with tc-99m labeled red blood cell scintigraphy . a hemophiliac with a self-inflicted abdominal stab wound was evaluated with computerized tomography , ultrasound , and technetium-99m labeled red blood cell ( tc-99m rbc ) imaging . a large intra-abdominal hematoma was best defined by ct and ultrasound ; however , continued bleeding , indicating the need for emergency surgery , could only be demonstrated by radiolabeled red blood cell scintigraphy . 
complete volar metacarpophalangeal joint dislocation of a finger . a complete volar dislocation of the metacarpophalangeal joint of a ring finger occurred in a 31-year-old man and was successfully treated by a closed reduction . we found only six cases of volar metacarpophalangeal joint dislocation reported in the literature all of which needed open reduction . 
rupture of the distal biceps brachii tendon . a 53-year-old male , while lifting a heavy object , suffered a rupture of the distal biceps brachii tendon . due to extremely well developed musculature , the patient had retained surprisingly good powers of supination and flexion , albeit decreased in comparison to the other side . during the following operation , the torn tendon was sutured to the tendon of the brachial muscle , with good results . in this type of patient , the mentioned operative procedure is preferable , rather than the more hazardous reinsertion of the tendon , which should only be used in cases with a significant loss of supination and flexion power . 
field triage for on-scene helicopter transport . this prospective study evaluated the use of basic vital signs , two mechanisms of injury , and time-distance factors as field triage criteria for on-scene helicopter transport of 130 patients to a trauma center serving a rural area . the vital signs criteria included any one or more of the following : level of consciousness ( loc ) less than or equal to unresponsive to verbal stimulation ; respiration rate ( rr ) less than or equal to 10 or greater than or equal to 30 ; systolic blood pressure ( bp ) less than or equal to 90 ; pulse ( p ) less than or equal to 60 or greater than or equal to 120. the flight crew recorded vital signs taken by the first responder capable of basic assessment . entrapment and associated fatalities in motor vehicular accidents were recorded and flight logistics were examined . the presence of one or more abnormal signs identified a group of seriously injured trauma patients ( mean injury severity score = 29.1 ) with 24 % mortality compared to a predicted mortality of 32 % ( p less than 0.02 ) . unresponsiveness to verbal stimulation in the field was the single most predictive criterion , yielding sensitivity of 93 % and specificity of 85 % . time-distance criteria were helpful to determine helicopter use . 
selective management of blunt splenic trauma . during a recent 8-year period , 235 patients with documented blunt splenic trauma were treated . after exclusion of 39 patients with early deaths ( 19 dead on arrival , nine died in emergency room , and 11 died in operating room ) , the 196 remaining patients were treated in accordance with an evolving selective management program . definitive management included splenectomy in 117 patients ( 59.7 % ) , repair in 32 ( 16.3 % ) , and nonoperative treatment in 47 ( 24 % ) . a spectrum of blunt splenic trauma , as manifested by the degree of associated injuries ( injury severity scores ) , hemodynamic status , and blood transfusion requirements , was identified and permitted application of a rational selective management program that proved safe and effective for all age groups . comparative analysis of the three methods of treatment demonstrated differences that were more a reflection of the overall magnitude of total bodily injury sustained rather than the specific manner in which any injured spleen was managed . retrospective analysis of 19 nonoperative management failures enabled establishment of the following selection criteria for nonoperative management : absolute hemodynamic stability ; minimal or lack of peritoneal findings ; and maximal transfusion requirement of 2 units for the splenic injury . with operative management , splenorrhaphy is preferred , but it was often precluded by associated life-threatening injuries or by technical limitations . of 42 attempted splenic repairs , ten ( 24 % ) were abandoned intraoperatively . there were no late failures of repair . in many cases of blunt splenic trauma , splenectomy still remains the most appropriate course of action . 
failure of nonprotein calories to mediate protein conservation in brain-injured patients . nitrogen balance in response to varying caloric intake was studied in 17 non-steroid-treated patients with isolated severe head injury ( glasgow coma scores , 4-9 ) . nitrogen excretion was found to remain relatively stable or to rise in response to protein intake over a wide range of nonprotein calorie intakes . urine urea nitrogen excretion was not related to caloric intake , but was correlated ( p less than 0.04 ) with nitrogen intake . in this study protein conservation was not achieved by increasing caloric intake up to and beyond two times the basal energy expenditure in the brain-injured patient . in these patients nitrogen balance could only be achieved by nitrogen intakes in excess of the high protein catabolic rate . these findings argue for a central control mechanism for protein catabolism that is independent of the magnitude of peripheral tissue injury . 
hemorrhage associated with major pelvic fracture : a multispecialty challenge . definitive treatment of life-threatening hemorrhage associated with blunt pelvic fracture remains controversial . to elucidate this issue , we reviewed 538 consecutive patients admitted with acute pelvic fracture during a 5-year period . injury mechanism was motor vehicular in 214 ( 40 % ) , falls in 152 ( 28 % ) , auto-pedestrian in 92 ( 17 % ) , motorcycle in 46 ( 9 % ) , crush in 26 ( 5 % ) , and assault or skiing in eight ( 1 % ) . ninety-two ( 17 % ) of these patients required greater than 6 units of blood transfusion during the first postinjury day , and are the primary focus of this report . twenty-five patients ( 28 % ) had unilateral anterior ( group i , n = 20 ) or posterior ( group ii , n = 5 ) fractures . the remaining 67 patients ( 72 % ) had anterior and posterior element involvement on the same side ( group ii , n = 38 ) , bilaterally ( group iv , n = 14 ) , or open perineal wounds ( group v , n = 15 ) . the pasg was applied in 47 patients ( 51 % ) , and controlled hemorrhage in 12 ( 71 % ) of the 17 in whom it was used alone to tamponade pelvic bleeding . peritoneal lavage was performed in 73 patients ( 79 % ) . initial aspirate yielded gross blood in 32 patients ; 27 ( 84 % ) of these required urgent laparotomy . external skeletal fixation was applied in 19 patients ; bleeding was controlled in 18 ( 95 % ) . pelvic angiography identified active hemorrhage in three patients and selective embolization was successful in two . sixty-eight ( 74 % ) of the high-risk patients survived . thirteen ( 54 % ) of the 24 deaths were attributable to the pelvic trauma , ten were due to recalcitrant bleeding , and three to delayed sepsis . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
late septic complications in adults following splenectomy for trauma : a prospective analysis in 144 patients . one hundred forty-four patients were prospectively followed through our asplenic registry for the development of late septic complications following splenectomy for trauma . there were 114 males and 30 females with a mean age of 28.6 years . the total time of followup was 8 , 810 patient months with a mean followup of 61 months ( range , 12-144 months ) . indications for splenectomy were blunt trauma , 111 patients ; penetrating trauma , six patients ; and intra-operative injury , 27 patients . during the followup to date , 15 late major septic complications requiring hospitalization have occurred in 13 patients ( 9 % ) . fulminant pneumococcal sepsis resulted in the death of a 27-year-old male , 3 years after splenectomy . septicemia occurred in four patients , pneumonia in five , abscess in two , infection of a prosthetic heart valve in one , meningitis in one , and fever of unknown origin in one . all but two of these infections were due to encapsulated organisms . minor septic complications occurred in 44 patients ( 30 % ) , and consisted of infections which required outpatient medical care . major late septic complications occurred more frequently following incidental splenectomy than following splenectomy for blunt or penetrating trauma ( 18.5 % and 5.9 % respectively ; p less than 0.05 ) . the mortality from major septic complications in this series ( 7 % ) is lower than previously reported by other investigators ( 30-80 % ) . our data suggest that adults undergoing splenectomy for trauma are at an increased risk of developing late major septic complications . this risk is significant enough to warrant attempts at splenic salvage , especially when injury is incidental to an elective operative procedure . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
the laboratory 's role in environmental health emergency investigations . an emergency environmental health investigation of a mass poisoning of unknown origin is a multidiscipline effort that requires the cooperation and close communication of epidemiologists , toxicologists , and chemists . the laboratory 's role in this effort is important ; special instruments , knowledge , and experience are needed . our approach to such an investigation is discussed and past cases are used as illustrations . the role of the analytical chemist is presented , and the major resources needed for these investigations are described . 
assessment of a scheme for prioritizing inorganic toxicants by using signs-and-symptoms analysis . in cases of exposure to unknown substances , analyzing environmental or biological samples for elevated levels of toxicants can be extremely complex . we assessed a method for prioritizing toxic substances according to the agreement between toxic-specific and incident-reported signs and symptoms by analyzing 25 reported case histories of exposure to inorganic toxicants . in all but one case , this analysis scheme successfully prioritized toxicants for subsequent analysis . despite its limitations , the scheme is a substantial improvement over other available methods . 
ethylene glycol poisoning . the value of glycolic acid determinations for diagnosis and treatment . glycolic acid is the ethylene glycol ( eg ) metabolite that accumulates in the highest concentrations in the blood and may be the major contributing factor to the acute toxicity of eg . serum and urine levels of glycolic acid have been found to correlate directly with clinical symptoms and mortality in poisoning cases , making it a valuable diagnostic tool . a high pressure liquid chromatographic ( hplc ) method for quantitation of glycolic acid in serum was used in several cases of eg ingestion presented to the louisiana regional poison control center . the data collected in this study support the value of glycolic acid determination for diagnosis and evaluation of patients poisoned by eg . 
pharmacokinetics of oral and intravenous bromide in normal volunteers . the pharmacokinetics of oral and intravenous bromide was studied in 7 adult volunteers , who served as their own controls . they received 1 ml / kg of 3 % sodium bromide , equivalent to 30 mg / kg bromide . oral bioavailability ranged between 75-118 % with a mean of 96 + / - 6 % . elimination t1 / 2 was 11.9 + / - 1.4 days after oral administration and 9.4 + / - 1.5 days after i.v. administration ( p greater than 0.10 ) . the employment of this ion for calculation of extracellular fluid and assessment of its potential significance in environmental toxicology necessitates accurate data on its disposition characteristics . 
toxicokinetics of caffeine elimination in an infant . the kinetics of caffeine elimination were followed in a ten month old female acutely intoxicated on a street form of the drug . urine drug screening by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry also showed the presence of ephedrine , phenylpropanolamine , caffeine , theophylline and theobromine . blood analyses using high pressure liquid chromatography gave evidence for the presence of theobromine , theophylline , caffeine and 1 , 7-dimethylxanthine . sequentially taken blood samples determined that the initial stage of caffeine elimination was nonlinear . the vmax = 27.6 micrograms / ml / hr and km = 284.6 micrograms / ml . at a plasma level of approximately 30 micrograms / ml the elimination became first order with ke = 0.097 hr-1 and t 1 / 2 = 7.1 hr . the metabolic generation of theophylline and its elimination were also studied . theophylline ke = 0.069 hr-1 and t 1 / 2 = 10.0 hr . elimination of both drugs was anomalously long for a child of this age . 
acute manic psychosis following the dermal application of n , n-diethyl-m-toluamide ( deet ) in an adult . extensive animal testing and 30 years of human experience have established the general safety of deet when applied episodically to skin or bedclothes . local and systemic toxic and allergic reactions to deet have been observed in man . three weeks prior to admission , for the purpose of self-medication , a 30 year old man began daily applications of the insect repellant , deet followed by a 1-2 hour period in a light-bulb heated box . sedation and incoherence were noted for short periods following each application session . aggressiveness and psychotic ideation led to hospital admission where he displayed psychomotor hyperactivity , rapid and pressured speech , tangentiality , flight of ideas , and grandiose delusions . treatment was begun with haloperidol . clinical improvement was complete within 6 days , atypical for classic endogenous mania . drug and metabolites were identified in the urine more than 2 weeks after the last drug application . 
misrepresentation of stimulant street drugs : a decade of experience in an analysis program . the findings of the los angeles county street drug identification program over the period from 1971 to 1980 for analysis of 1163 samples of street drugs represented as stimulants are presented . of the 614 alleged cocaine samples , cocaine was found to be absent in 19.2 % , found combined with stimulant substitutes in 22.5 % , and found by itself in 58.3 % of these samples . the validity for 473 alleged amphetamine samples was only 27.1 % , with 23.0 % of samples found to contain stimulant substitutes along with amphetamine , and 49.9 % of the samples lacking any of the alleged drug . seventy-six alleged methamphetamine samples showed 32.9 % validity , with 3.9 % of samples having mixtures of alleged drug and substitutes , and 63.2 % of samples lacking any methamphetamine . a total of 15 different stimulant substitutes were found in 74 combinations . caffeine , ephedrine , lidocaine , and procaine were the commonest substitutes . 
arsenic content of homeopathic medicines . in order to test the widely held assumption that homeopathic medicines contain negligible quantities of their major ingredients , six such medicines labeled in latin as containing arsenic were purchased over the counter and by mail order and their arsenic contents measured . values determined were similar to those expected from label information in only two of six and were markedly at variance in the remaining four . arsenic was present in notable quantities in two preparations . most sales personnel interviewed could not identify arsenic as being an ingredient in these preparations and were therefore incapable of warning the general public of possible dangers from ingestion . no such warnings appeared on the labels . 
do n't throw out the baby with the bath water . a perspective on carotid endarterectomy . 
ex vivo renal artery reconstructions : indications and techniques . ex vivo renal artery surgery has been reported by several investigators and has extended the role of revascularization in the treatment of lesions previously managed by nephrectomy alone . several techniques are available for use , and selection of the most appropriate method can be tailored to the specific anatomy being managed . our total experience included 27 kidneys that have been managed by ex vivo renal artery reconstruction . lesions managed in this manner include two kidneys with renal artery stenosis and renal tumors , one kidney with a congenital branch arteriovenous malformation , and 24 kidneys with branch occlusive or aneurysmal disease from fibromuscular dysplasia . postoperative angiography was performed in 22 cases and defined successful revascularization without technical error in 20 cases . one operative death occurred as a result of myocardial infarction . one patient required reoperation to control bleeding , and two patients had temporary acute tubular necrosis during the postoperative period . techniques employed included ex vivo repair with autotransplantation to the iliac system ( six kidneys ) , mobilization and perfusion without transection of the renal vein ( 10 kidneys ) , and ex vivo perfusion and repair with replacement into the original renal fossa ( 11 kidneys ) . the authors believe this latter technique of reconstruction to be preferable to autotransplantation for the usual patient undergoing ex vivo repair of complex renovascular lesions . 
venous injury : to repair or ligate , the dilemma [ published erratum appears in j vasc surg 1987 apr ; 5 ( 4 ) : 565 ] surgical management of major venous injuries remains controversial . the medical records of 184 patients with major venous injury were reviewed . forty-three patients had isolated venous injury ; 31 of 43 patients ( 72 % ) underwent ligation to treat their vein injury . another 141 patients had combined arterial and venous injury ; 117 of these patients ( 83 % ) had ligation . injured were the inferior vena cava , iliac , femoral , popliteal , distal leg , and arm veins ; all patients underwent surgical exploration . arterial injuries were repaired by standard techniques and venous injuries were either ligated or repaired by end-to-end or lateral phleborrhaphy . adjunctive fasciotomy was used when clinically indicated . the patients were followed up for 1 month to 9 years . no permanent sequelae of venous ligation were identified . transient extremity edema developed in up to 32 % of patients , regardless of whether vein ligation or repair was performed . this edema resolved completely within 12 weeks of the injury . no extremity was lost after ligation of a venous injury . although it may be ideal to repair all venous vascular injuries , selective management reflecting mechanism of injury , blood loss , anesthesia requirements , associated organ injury , and other concerns may mitigate against extensive venous repair . 
the clinical significance of the asymptomatic hollenhorst plaque . sixty consecutive patients with visual complaints as the primary symptom of cerebrovascular insufficiency were evaluated with complete cerebral angiography ( cca ) . eighteen patients referred for evaluation of asymptomatic hollenhorst plaques had a 50 % incidence of ipsilateral carotid bifurcation disease , but only 16 % of these were considered surgically remediable ; five of these patients eventually required carotid endarterectomy ( cea ) . nine of the 18 patients with asymptomatic hollenhorst plaques were further evaluated with serial ocular fundus photography : the plaque persisted in all nine patients--in four for more than 6 months and in five for more than 1 year . no patient had transient or fixed retinal or cerebral symptoms . twenty-six patients with amaurosis fugax showed a 70 % incidence of significant bifurcation disease and three had significant intracranial disease ; 50 % eventually required cea . twelve patients with fixed visual deficits ( four patients had homonymous hemianopsia , four had retinal artery occlusions , and four had ischemic retinopathies ) demonstrated a 100 % incidence of bifurcation disease , but in addition 85 % had significant intracranial disease ; only one of this group had surgically amenable disease . amaurosis fugax preceded blindness in two patients . hollenhorst plaque as an isolated phenomenon appears to be a retinal embolic event of uncertain age , with poor predictive power for further embolic events , and not as highly correlated with significant or surgically amenabe carotid bifurcation disease . 
septic deep vein thrombosis . anticoagulation is the cornerstone in the treatment of deep vein thrombosis . however , the treatment of septic deep vein thrombosis is controversial . unlike septic superficial vein thrombosis , venous excision is often associated with limb-threatening or even life-threatening complications . some authors have suggested thrombectomy as the only means of resolving the sepsis . we reviewed our experience with seven patients who had septic deep vein thrombosis . phlebography or noninvasive studies documented deep vein thrombosis and blood cultures were positive in all patients . the mean age was 31.5 years with a male / female ratio of 5 : 2. all patients were treated with anticoagulants and intravenous antibiotics . one patient required surgical exploration for associated abscess of the groin . the patients became afebrile with normal white blood cell counts from 3 to 18 days after therapy was begun . no cases of recurrent sepsis occurred . we conclude that antibiotic therapy and anticoagulation are adequate treatment and therefore consider venous thrombectomy unnecessary . 
a clinical method for the detection of arteriovenous fistulas during in situ great saphenous vein bypass . residual arteriovenous fistulas are a potential source of morbidity after femorodistal bypass operation has been performed with the in situ great saphenous vein graft . a review of our initial experience with 155 operations in which various methods of intraoperative detection were used showed that fistulas were overlooked in 27 cases ( 17.4 % ) , causing graft thrombosis in 10 cases ( 6.4 % ) . after the introduction of a rapid and simple intraoperative test that used retrograde irrigation of the graft , only three superficial fistulas were overlooked in 70 operations ( 4.2 % ) , with no associated graft thrombosis . the test had no detectable deleterious effects and graft distension pressures were within acceptable limits . 
intravascular shunts in complex lower limb trauma . vascular injuries of the lower limb in the presence of extensive soft tissue loss , fractures , or other life-threatening injuries are associated with a high amputation rate . five patients underwent temporary intravascular shunting during the period of treatment of such injuries . rapid reperfusion of the limb via such shunts permitted more comprehensive evaluation and management of the lower limb and other associated injuries than would have been possible in the presence of prolonged ischemia . 
the long-term results of carotid endarterectomy for transient ischemic attacks . one hundred patients who underwent carotid endarterectomy for transient ischemic attacks ( tias ) have been followed up for 3 to 10 years ( mean , 5.5 years ) . seven patients have been lost to follow-up but none is recorded as dead ( national registry of deaths ) at least 5 years after operation . fifteen patients ( 16.5 % ) have died , four from cerebral and eight from cardiac causes . three patients had cerebral infarction with permanent deficits , one occurring immediately after operation , one at 3 months , and one at 9 years . four patients had minor strokes but a full clinical recovery , three patients postoperatively and one patient at 4 years . fourteen patients had ipsilateral tias , four occurred postoperatively and 10 occurred from 1 to 8 years later . ten patients had contralateral tias and five patients then had a contralateral carotid endarterectomy . another nine patients also had bilateral operations , three for bilateral tias , five as prophylactic procedures on the basis of arteriographic findings , and one for a contralateral cerebral event that occurred after arteriography . thus , at the mean follow-up time ( 5.5 years ) and including the operative complications , four deaths ( 4 % ) of cerebral origin and seven serious cerebral problems ( 7 % ) have occurred--an annual morbidity and mortality rate of less than 2 % . this compares favorably with the commonly predicted rate of stroke occurring after tias of 5 % per year . these figures support the argument that carotid endarterectomy reduces the incidence of stroke occurring after tia and stops tias caused by emboli from the carotid bifurcation . 
central venous septic thrombosis managed by superior vena cava greenfield filter and venous thrombectomy : a case report . operative management of a patient with septic thrombosis from candida organisms of the subclavian and central veins is described . diagnosis was suspected on the basis of positive blood and catheter tip cultures , indium-labeled leukocyte scan , and bilateral upper extremity phlebograms . venous thrombectomy with a fogarty catheter of the upper extremity central veins was performed after a superior vena cava greenfield filter had been placed to prevent pulmonary embolism . the thrombus culture was positive for candida albicans , and the reestablishment of vein patency in conjunction with amphotericin b therapy resulted in cure . this technique allows a definitive diagnosis of septic central thrombosis to be made and reestablishment of vein patency may also enhance antibiotic therapy . 
tuberculous aortitis with associated necrosis and perforation : treatment and options . tuberculous aortitis is a rare entity and its association with necrosis and perforation is even more unusual . our pulmonary medicine service originally evaluated an elderly woman with a right pleural effusion and upper lobe infiltrate thought to be tuberculosis . an abdominal ct scan performed at that time showed extensive periaortic adenopathy . isoniazid and rifampin were started , but both were stopped by the patient after less than 6 months of therapy . the patient later had night sweats , a left pleural effusion , and a tender abdominal mass thought to be a symptomatic aneurysm . at operation , the aorta was necrotic and had an inflammatory mass and perforation on the left side . infrarenal aortic ligation and resection were performed to control infection . a previously placed axillofemoral graft obviated the need for concomitant revascularization . the patient was treated postoperatively with isoniazid and rifampin until hyperbilirubinemia developed , which necessitated alternate therapy with ethambutol and streptomycin . the patient died one month after operation of a presumed pulmonary embolus . 
internal vessel occlusion : an improved technique for small vessel anastomosis . during infragenicular bypass , internal occlusion of the distal vessel avoids unnecessary dissection and potentially damaging use of external clamps or vessel loops while improving exposure and patency . this technique is especially useful in patients with small or calcific vessels in whom distal reconstruction is necessary for limb salvage . 
state-of-art drug identification laboratories play increasing role in major athletic events [ news ] 
leads from the mmwr . cholera in louisiana--update . 
a piece of my mind . immune response . 
zaire : nonsexual household transmission of aids [ letter ] 
tuberculosis as a manifestation of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [ letter ] 
a child with hiv infection [ letter ] 
cocaine kindling [ letter ] 
vaginal spermicides and congenital disorders : the validity of a study [ letter ] 
aplastic crisis or erythroid hypoplasia [ letter ] 
medical care costs of patients with aids in san francisco . this article reports on the findings of a study of medical care expenditures of persons with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) treated at san francisco general hospital in 1984. we found that mean charges per aids hospital admission were $ 9024 , mean charges of patients with aids who received all their hospital inpatient and outpatient care at san francisco general hospital in 1984 ranged from $ 7026 to $ 23 , 425 , and mean lifetime inpatient charges of patients with aids who died and who had received all their inpatient care at the hospital were $ 27 , 571. these latter charges were considerably lower than previously published estimates of lifetime direct medical care costs of patients with aids , and the possible reasons for the differences include much lower lifetime use of hospital services and somewhat lower cost per hospital day . 
cyclosporine improves psoriasis in a double-blind study . in a double-blind trial , 21 patients with severe plaque psoriasis were randomly assigned to receive oral cyclosporine , 14 mg / kg / d , or its vehicle . after four weeks of therapy the 11 cyclosporine recipients had the following response to treatment : two had total clearing and six improved markedly , two moderately , and one minimally ; whereas ten vehicle-treated patients showed no change or minimal improvement . vehicle-treated patients , after a switch to cyclosporine for four weeks , demonstrated impressive improvement similar to that seen in patients who initially received only cyclosporine . moderate or marked improvement or total clearing was noted in 17 ( 81 % ) of 21 and 20 ( 95 % ) of 21 after one and four weeks of therapy , respectively . mitotic figures and leukotriene b4 levels in lesions decreased 86 % and 64 % , respectively , after seven days of cyclosporine therapy . mononuclear ( including activated t cells ) and polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltrates were markedly reduced in lesions of all patients after seven days of cyclosporine therapy . these results suggest that psoriasis may have an immunologic basis mediated by activated t cells and / or other immune cells ; if a long-term regimen with a favorable efficacy-side effect ratio can be determined , cyclosporine would be a significant advance in the treatment of psoriasis . 
the therapeutic use of 2 , 3-dimercaptopropane-1-sulfonate in two cases of inorganic mercury poisoning . two patients had heavy metal intoxication resulting from industrial exposure to mercury vapors . one patient remained asymptomatic despite high urinary mercury levels . the second presented with a documented toxic reaction , including abnormal electromyograms and hematuria . treatment was begun with 2 , 3-dimercaptopropane-1-sulfonate , and investigational drug used under food and drug administration guidelines ( ind 19 , 276 ) . use in both patients resulted in a dramatic change in excretion half-life of the mercury , from 33.1 days before treatment to 11.2 days during therapy . no significant toxic effects related to drug therapy were observed . clearing of hematuria and reversal of electromyographic abnormalities were prompt in the symptomatic patient . therapy with 2 , 3-dimercaptopropane-1-sulfonate was effective in these two patients . 
isoniazid overdose in the cambodian population of olmsted county , minnesota . eight cases of suicidal isoniazid overdose by cambodian refugees are reviewed . in all patients generalized seizures and metabolic acidosis developed . treatment included supportive measures and intravenous pyridoxine hydrochloride . there were no deaths . psychiatric evaluation of each patient revealed usual and extraordinary life and social adjustment stresses . indochinese immigrants are a subpopulation at risk for isoniazid overdose . 
the need to treat mild hypertension . misinterpretation of results from the australian trial . despite the clear-cut result of the australian therapeutic trial in mild hypertension , which demonstrated prospectively the benefit of treatment of diastolic blood pressure in the range of 95 to 109 mm hg , a retrospective analysis that classified subjects by the average diastolic pressure level attained during the trial purported to show an absence of treatment benefit at lower average diastolic pressures and a negative treatment effect at higher levels . however , the method of classification by average attained diastolic pressure introduced substantial selection bias , invalidating the retrospective analysis and rendering as spurious both the deleterious treatment effect and its lack of efficacy at lower diastolic levels . 
is there an epidemic of chronic candidiasis in our midst ? 
planning for the health care needs of patients with aids [ editorial ] 
physicians enamored of adventurous life make the great outdoors safer for all [ news ] 
hemophilia , beaten on one front , is beset on others [ news ] 
leads from the mmwr . surveillance of hemophilia-associated acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . 
leads from the mmwr . congenital syphilis--united states , 1983-1985 . 
a sobering perspective on a lower blood alcohol limit [ letter ] 
the risks of moderate drinking [ letter ] 
blocking the filter vents of cigarettes [ letter ] 
dependence on nicotine chewing gum [ letter ] 
breast-feeding [ letter ] 
elevated atypical creatine kinases [ letter ] 
hepatitis b prophylaxis in dental professionals [ letter ] 
anesthesia and venous thromboembolism [ letter ] 
aldicarb poisoning [ letter ] 
antibiotic treatment of pelvic inflammatory disease . trends among private physicians in the united states , 1966 through 1983. although pelvic inflammatory disease is the most common serious infection among young women of reproductive age in the united states , no nationwide data are available on the patterns of antibiotic treatment of this disease . to examine these patterns we analyzed over 25 million antibiotic prescriptions for treatment of pelvic inflammatory disease from 1966 through 1983 , using the national disease and therapeutic index . most patients received a single antibiotic on an outpatient basis . overall , use of natural penicillins declined markedly , and use of aminopenicillins more than doubled . cephalosporins emerged as the most frequently prescribed antibiotic for hospitalized patients . nationwide surveillance of treatment patterns may help to identify areas needing improvement through continuing education . 
national surveillance of aids in health care workers . information obtained for all persons with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) reported to the centers for disease control , atlanta , includes a question about employment in a health care or clinical laboratory setting . as of may 1 , 1986 , a total of 922 ( 5.5 % ) of 16 , 748 adults with aids reported employment in such settings . ninety-five percent of these health care workers belonged to recognized high-risk groups for aids ; the proportion with " no identified risk " has not increased with time . all aids patients ( including health care workers ) who do not belong to high-risk groups are referred for further investigation . of 88 health care workers initially reported with no identified risk , ten were from countries where heterosexual transmission is believed to play a major role ; additional information was unobtainable or incomplete for 17 individuals . of 61 persons on whom interviews or other follow-up information was obtained , 44 ( 73 % ) were reclassified . specific occupational exposures that could be implicated as the source of human immunodeficiency virus infection were not identified for any health care workers with aids . a review of surveillance data supports other studies indicating that the risk of human immunodeficiency virus transmission in the occupational setting is low . 
impact of worksite health promotion on health care costs and utilization . evaluation of johnson & johnson 's live for life program . this study explores the relationship between exposure to a comprehensive worksite health promotion program and health care costs and utilization . the experience of two groups of johnson & johnson employees ( n = 5192 and n = 3259 ) exposed to live for life , a comprehensive program of health screens , life-style improvement programs , and worksite changes to support healthier life-styles , was compared with that of a control group ( n = 2955 ) over a five-year period . to account for baseline differences , analyses of covariance produced adjusted means for inpatient hospital costs , admissions , hospital days , outpatient costs , and other health costs . mean annual inpatient cost increases were $ 43 and $ 42 for two live for life groups vs $ 76 for the non-live for life group . live for life groups also had lower rates of increase in hospital days and admissions . no significant differences were found for outpatient or other health care costs . 
metabolic effects of dietary fructose and sucrose in types i and ii diabetic subjects . to learn more about the metabolic effects of dietary fructose and sucrose , 12 type i and 12 type ii diabetic subjects were fed three isocaloric ( or isoenergic ) diets for eight days each according to a randomized , crossover design . the three diets provided , respectively , 21 % of the energy as fructose , 23 % of the energy as sucrose , and almost all carbohydrate energy as starch . the fructose diet resulted in significantly lower one- and two-hour postprandial plasma glucose levels , overall mean plasma glucose levels , and urinary glucose excretion in both type i and type ii subjects than did the starch diet . there were no significant differences between the sucrose and starch diets in any of the measures of glycemic control in either subject group . the fructose and sucrose diets did not significantly increase serum triglyceride values when compared with the starch diet , but both increased postprandial serum lactate levels . we conclude that short-term replacement of other carbohydrate sources in the diabetic diet with fructose will improve glycemic control , whereas replacement with sucrose will not aggravate glycemic control . 
adrenal insufficiency due to cryptococcosis . 
allergic sino-orbital mycosis . a clinical and immunologic study . we present a case of pansinusitis with orbital involvement associated with an allergic response to the fungus curvularia ( cochliobolus ) lunata . key elements to the diagnosis included a predominant eosinophilic response of the sinus mucosa , the presence of a characteristic mucoid exudate containing fungal hyphae , peripheral blood eosinophilia , serum precipitins against c lunata , elevated serum total and curvularia-specific ige and igg concentrations , and immediate cutaneous reactivity to c lunata antigen . this report suggests that an exaggerated allergic response should be considered in the pathogenesis of pansinusitis . the presence of fungal hyphae in sinus mucosal specimens should alert the physician to the possibility of this disease . sinus fungal cultures , as well as thorough immunologic evaluation , of such patients is recommended . 
nortriptyline in depressed patients with left ventricular impairment . previous studies of the effect of tricyclic antidepressants on left ventricular function in depressed patients with moderate to severe ventricular impairment have focused primarily on imipramine hydrochloride . in a prior study , we found that although imipramine had no effect on ejection fraction as measured by first-pass radionuclide angiography , the treatment could not be tolerated by 50 % of the patients because of intolerable drug-induced orthostatic hypotension . nortriptyline hydrochloride is an effective antidepressant that , in depressed patients without heart disease , causes significantly less orthostatic hypotension than imipramine . to see if this advantage could be safely extended to patients with congestive failure , we measured the effect of nortriptyline on ejection fraction and blood pressure in 21 depressed patients with left ventricular impairment . ejection fraction was unchanged by nortriptyline treatment , and orthostatic hypotension developed in only one ( 5 % ) of 21 patients . nortriptyline emerges as a relatively safe treatment for depression in patients with left ventricular impairment . 
small intestinal complications of diverticulitis of the sigmoid colon . 
treatment of pelvic inflammatory disease : use doxycycline with an appropriate beta-lactam while we wait for better data [ editorial ] 
risk of aids to health care workers [ editorial ] 
diagnostic and therapeutic technology assessment . garren gastric bubble . 
increase in aids-associated illnesses focuses new attention on an old nemesis [ news ] 
leads from the mmwr . tuberculosis--united states , 1985. 
leads from the mmwr . trends in mortality from cirrhosis and alcoholism--united states , 1945-1983 . 
the physician 's stake in animal research [ letter ] 
female frosh fare fine [ letter ] 
more on attachment behavior : t'was the night before changeover [ letter ] 
oxygen prescribing practices : measurement of po2 [ letter ] 
prescribing oxygen for cluster headaches [ letter ] 
focus on keratotomy results [ letter ] 
urticaria from contact with pentachlorophenate [ letter ] 
evaluation of persons exposed to dairy products contaminated with heptachlor [ letter ] 
attractive method for battery removal [ letter ] 
drug-induced cutaneous reactions . a report from the boston collaborative drug surveillance program on 15 , 438 consecutive inpatients , 1975 to 1982. we analyzed the data on 15 , 438 consecutive medical inpatients monitored by the boston collaborative drug surveillance program from june 1975 to june 1982 to determine the rates of allergic cutaneous reactions to drugs introduced since 1975 and to confirm and extend findings from an earlier study of the preceding 22 , 227 patients . there were 358 reactions occurring in 347 patients , for an overall reaction rate among patients of 2.2 % . each patient received a mean of eight different drugs . rashes were attributed to 51 drugs , and 75 % of the allergic cutaneous reactions were attributed to antibiotics , blood products , and inhaled mucolytics . amoxicillin ( 51.4 reactions per 1000 patients exposed ) , trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole ( 33.8 / 1000 ) , and ampicillin ( 33.2 / 1000 ) had the highest reaction rates . drug-specific reaction rates ranged from zero to 51.4 per 1000 and were determined for 180 drugs or drug groups . these results provide physicians with quantitative data that will be helpful in clinical decision making when drug-induced exanthems , urticaria , or generalized pruritus occurs . 
outcome of lung cancer patients requiring mechanical ventilation for pulmonary failure . the prognosis of lung cancer patients who are not candidates for surgery is usually poor . the unfavorable natural history of respiratory failure in this group of patients has been suggested as a causative factor . we analyzed the outcome of 46 consecutive patients with primary lung cancer on whom mechanical ventilators were utilized . although seven patients were ultimately weaned and survived for at least 24 hours , three of them subsequently died prior to discharge from the hospital . the remaining 39 patients died while using the ventilator . patient age , tumor cell type , and the etiology of respiratory failure were not significantly different between the weaned and unweaned populations . a difference was noted in the duration of mechanical ventilation : none of the patients who could be weaned required mechanical ventilation for more than six days ( range , two to six days ) . respiratory failure in the nonsurgical lung cancer patient carries a poor prognosis , and selection of patients for mechanical ventilation should be conservative . 
predictors of the performance of foreign medical graduates on the 1982 certifying examination in internal medicine . this study describes a cohort of foreign medical school graduates ( fmgs ) who first sat for the american board of internal medicine 's ( abim ) 1982 certifying examination , compares their performance with that of us medical school graduates , describes differences between us citizen fmgs and alien fmgs , and examines which background factors predict success on the abim examination . data for this study were derived by combining information retained by the educational commission for foreign medical graduates with abim data . most fmgs who took the 1982 abim certifying examination for the first time were educated in and citizens of asia , but a sizable minority were us citizens educated in europe . scores and program directors ' ratings were lower for fmgs than us medical school graduates , and they attended different types of training programs . united states citizen fmgs were very similar to alien fmgs . foreign medical school graduates who did well on the abim examination had done well on the educational commission for foreign medical graduates examination and were rated highly by their residency program director . 
the us health care system in the year 2000. 
health care in transition . consequences for young physicians . council on long-range planning and development . individuals planning for a career in medicine must weigh a number of factors into their decisions . increasingly , they must understand the nature of the socioeconomic environment of health care , including the extent of competition with other physicians and other health professionals ; the degree of autonomy from health care institutions , government , and third-party payers ; the impact of demographic or technological changes ; and the economics of medical practice . this report analyzes the environment of medicine , emphasizing those elements that will be most important to medical students and resident physicians . it focuses on three stages of a physician 's career : obtaining a medical education , beginning to practice medicine , and maintaining a viable practice . 
uncertainty and the future of young physicians [ editorial ] 
migraine : many things to many patients [ news ] 
leads from the mmwr . premature mortality from diabetes mellitus--use of sentinel health event surveillance to assess causes . 
leads from the mmwr . smoking and health : a national status report . 
standards for monitoring during anesthesia at harvard [ letter ] 
ventricular tachycardia associated with non-freon aerosol propellants [ letter ] 
clinical training for students of foreign medical schools in us hospitals [ letter ] 
chemonucleolysis and microsurgery for lumbar disk disease [ letter ] 
the facts of kathmandu : squatter 's palsy [ letter ] 
voluntary self-exclusion to reduce transmission of aids by blood transfusion [ letter ] 
increased porphobilinogen deaminase activity in patients with malignant lymphoproliferative diseases . a helpful diagnostic test . patients with malignant lymphoproliferative diseases , ie , chronic lymphocytic leukemia and lymphoma , were found to have higher porphobilinogen deaminase ( pbgd ) activity in their peripheral lymphocytes than normal control subjects , patients with other malignant neoplasms , and patients with various infectious diseases . the specificity and sensitivity of the test were 99 % and 87 % , respectively . the sensitivity of the test was 100 % in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and 82 % in patients with lymphoma . the diagnostic value of pbgd determinations was shown in a prospective study of a group of patients evaluated because of fever of unknown origin , anemia , or other constitutional symptoms with or without lymphadenopathy or a mediastinal mass . the positive and negative predictive values in these patients were 91 % and 100 % , respectively . nearly all patients who were in remission had normal enzyme activity . lymphocyte pbgd determinations also may be of value in determining when to terminate or reinitiate drug treatment . 
the influence of immunity on raw milk--associated campylobacter infection . after a retreat to an oregon farm , 19 of 31 college students developed an acute gastrointestinal illness . campylobacter jejuni infection was recognized in all the ill students and caused asymptomatic infections in three others . in total , 22 ( 88 % ) of 25 students who consumed raw milk for the first time became infected as compared with none of two who had not consumed raw milk . among ten persons who chronically consumed raw milk , none was ill , a striking difference from the 76 % attack rate among the 25 acutely exposed students . the quantity of raw milk consumed was directly related to the occurrence and severity of illness . acutely infected students showed significant rises in c jejuni-specific immunoglobulins , whereas the low antibody levels seen in unexposed persons did not rise . in contrast , acute-phase serum samples from persons with chronic exposure to raw milk showed elevated antibody levels to c jejuni . these findings indicate that chronic raw milk consumption is associated with elevated levels of c jejuni-specific serum antibodies and with immunity to symptomatic infection . 
medical school performance of initially rejected students . at the university of texas medical school at houston we had a unique opportunity to examine performance through the medical curriculum and one year of postgraduate training of 50 students initially rejected for medical school . each had been interviewed by the same admissions committee , which earlier had selected 150 students through the traditional process . in contrasting the initially accepted and initially rejected groups , academic and demographic variables accounted for only 28 % of group difference . the 72 % of group difference not accounted for by the variables examined was presumed to relate to admissions committee preference . in attrition and in both preclinical and clinical performance through medical school and one year of postgraduate training , there were no meaningful differences between the groups . the observations suggest that the traditional interview process probably does not enhance the ability to predict performance of medical school applicants . 
red blood cell porphobilinogen deaminase in the evaluation of acute intermittent porphyria [ published erratum appears in jama 1987 mar 13 ; 257 ( 10 ) : 1332 ] we measured the activity of the enzyme porphobilinogen deaminase in red blood cells of 222 persons . ninety-seven of 107 patients with acute intermittent porphyria had enzyme activity below the normal range , whereas 55 of 56 patients with other types of porphyria had normal activity . this underscores the utility of this test in confirming the diagnosis of acute intermittent porphyria . measurement of enzyme activity in 41 families with acute intermittent porphyria demonstrated that deficient activity is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait . many latent carriers of the genetic defect were identified by family studies , permitting appropriate precautions to avoid potentially lethal porphyric attacks . 
partial muscle carnitine palmitoyltransferase-a deficiency . rhabdomyolysis associated with transiently decreased muscle carnitine content after ibuprofen therapy . after initiation of ibuprofen therapy , a 45-year-old woman developed muscle weakness and tenderness with rhabdomyolysis , culminating in respiratory failure . a muscle biopsy specimen showed a vacuolar myopathy , and markedly decreased muscle carnitine content and carnitine palmitoyltransferase activity . following recovery , muscle carnitine content was normal but carnitine palmitoyltransferase activity was still abnormally low . the ratio of palmitoyl-coenzyme a plus carnitine to palmitoylcarnitine oxidation by muscle mitochondria isolated from the patient was markedly decreased . we conclude that transiently decreased muscle carnitine content interacted with partial deficiency of carnitine palmitoyltransferase-a to produce rhabdomyolysis and respiratory failure and that ibuprofen may have precipitated the clinical event . 
patient and house officer attitudes on physician attire and etiquette . to study patient preferences on physician attire and etiquette , we interviewed 200 patients on the general medical services of teaching hospitals in boston and san francisco . of these 200 patients , 65 % believed physicians should wear a white coat , 27 % believed physicians should not wear tennis shoes , 52 % believed physicians should not wear blue jeans , 37 % believed male physicians should wear neckties , and 34 % believed female physicians should wear dresses or skirts . forty percent of patients wanted physicians to address them by first name , but only 10 % of patients wanted to address their physicians by first name . a concurrent mailed survey of 74 medical house staff members at the two hospitals revealed wide variability in physicians ' attire and in how patients were addressed at each institution . thus , many house officers had habits that were less formal than a substantial portion of their patients preferred . 
familial hypercholesterolemia . there is a need for early detection and treatment [ editorial ] 
discussion , ideas abound in migraine research ; consensus remains elusive [ news ] 
dietary protein prior to renal ischemia dramatically affects postischemic kidney function . male sprague-dawley rats were maintained on high protein ( 60 % ) , normal protein ( 20 % ) , low protein ( 5 % ) , or no protein ( 0 % ) diets for two or four weeks prior to 45 minutes of renal ischemia induced by renal pedicle clamping . most ( 93 % ) of the rats on the high protein diet died within three days following renal ischemia . in addition , 69 % of the rats on normal protein diets also died , most before the fourth day following ischemic insult . in contrast , 88 % of the rats on the low protein diet lived , although some exhibited elevated serum creatinine levels for up to one to two weeks following ischemia . finally , all of the rats on no protein diets lived , and most ( 75 % ) exhibited normal serum creatinine levels by the fourth day following ischemia . shifting the diets of high protein and normal protein adapted rats to no protein diets immediately following ischemia did not improve postischemic survival . also , changing the diets of no protein adapted rats to high protein diets immediately following ischemia did not significantly affect postischemic recovery . when rats were maintained on no protein diets for shorter periods of time prior to ischemia , it was found that approximately a week on this diet is necessary to provide maximum protection from postischemic acute renal failure . these findings demonstrate a dramatic effect of dietary protein prior to ischemic induced acute renal failure , and suggests that preoperative dietary protein intake should be an important consideration in those situations which are predisposed to postoperative acute renal failure . 
the effects of discontinuation of aluminum exposure on aluminum-induced osteomalacia . studies in patients on dialysis have shown that aluminum ( al ) accumulation in bone plays a major role in the pathogenesis of osteomalacia . it has been suggested that deferoxamine ( dfo ) may be beneficial in the treatment of aluminum-induced osteomalacia . the present studies were performed in four groups of uremic rats to determine if dfo and / or discontinuation of al administration have an effect on bone histomorphometry and blood chemistries . the groups were : 1 ) uremic control 2 ) aluminum ( 0.75 to 1.0 mg / rat i.p. , five times a week for twelve weeks ) : 3 ) aluminum + dfo , after twelve weeks al was discontinued and the rats received dfo ( 75 mg / rat two times a week for nine weeks ) ; 4 ) aluminum + time , after twelve weeks al was discontinued and the rats were sacrificed after nine weeks . high levels of al in serum and bone and low levels of pth were seen in rats receiving al . bone histology revealed al at the mineralization front , abnormal tetracycline uptake , and an increase in osteoid . dfo treatment did not significantly change the level of al in bone , however both dfo treatment and discontinuation of al reversed towards normal the above described lesions . in conclusion , these studies suggest that dfo and / or discontinuation of al administration to rats with approximately 30 % of renal function greatly improve aluminum-induced osteomalacia . 
glutamine transport in the rabbit proximal straight tubule : effect of acute acid ph . proximal straight tubules ( pst ) has been shown to be an important nephron segment of renal ammonia production . to clarify the nature of glutamine ( substrate of ammonia production ) transport in pst , both luminal resorption and peritubular uptake of glutamine were measured in isolated rabbit pst . luminal glutamine resorption ( jgln ) was measured at various perfusate glutamine concentration ( 0.05 to 20 mm ) at 38 degrees c and 12 degrees c . jgln measured at 12 degrees c were proportional to mean luminal glutamine concentrations . this flux was thought to be a passive glutamine flux . the flux , which was obtained by subtracting passive glutamine flux from jgln obtained at 38 degrees c , was thought to be active luminal resorption . this flux exhibited saturation kinetics ( vmax 20.9 pmol min-1 x mm-1 , km 5.2 mm ) . when bath ph ( hco3 ) was lowered from 7.4 to 6.8 , jgln showed no change or a small decrease ( 12 % ) at perfusate glutamine concentrations of 0.05 or 5 mm , respectively . when perfusate ph ( hco3 ) was lowered from 7.4 to 6.8 jgln showed a small decrease ( 10 % ) at 5 mm perfusate glutamine concentration . peritubular glutamine uptake was determined in isolated nonperfused pst incubated for 5 to 50 min in [ 14c ] -glutamine containing solution . when incubated in ph 7.4 hco3 buffer solution , cell to medium 14c concentration ratio was higher than unity ( 3.83 + / - 0.34 , p less than 0.001 ) at 5 min , and reached a maximum ( 11.37 + / - 1.13 ) at 30 min . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
acute renal failure in hemorrhagic hypotension : cellular energetics and renal function . in male wistar rats , renal adenosine triphosphate ( atp ) , inorganic phosphate ( pi ) and intracellular ph were measured by 31phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance ( 31p nmr ) and correlated with renal function before , during , and for one hour after a period of 30 to 40 minutes hemorrhagic hypotension . in animals which suffered no change in these metabolites during hypotension , retransfusion immediately restored normal renal function . when metabolite changes were observed during hypotension , they occurred suddenly with severe atp depletion , pi accumulation , and intracellular acidosis occurring almost concurrently . metabolic changes of this magnitude were always associated with renal dysfunction in the post-hypotensive period , which occurred even when the period of biochemical change was only 10 to 15 minutes . the abnormalities in post-hypotensive renal function resemble the pattern of change seen in human acute tubular necrosis ( atn ) : depressed glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) , urine output varying from polyuria to oliguria , decreased urine to plasma inulin ratio , increased urinary sodium concentration , increased fractional excretion of sodium , and increased fractional excretion of potassium . it is postulated that changes in renal cellular energy status during hemorrhagic hypotension distinguish pre-renal failure from early or incipient atn . 
responses of in vivo renal microvessels to dopamine . the split hydronephrotic kidney preparation was used to directly observe the effects of locally applied dopamine on the in vivo diameters of renal vessels . dopamine ( 1 x 10 ( -6 ) to 3 x 10 ( -5 ) m ) produced a concentration-dependent dilation of the arcuate and interlobular arteries and afferent arterioles . efferent arterioles near the glomeruli also dilated to dopamine but the dilation was less than that of the preglomerular vessels . higher dopamine concentrations ( 3 x 10 ( -4 ) and 1 x 10 ( -3 ) m ) produced more variable effects , with a tendency for the arcuate and interlobular arteries and the afferent and efferent arterioles away from the glomeruli to decrease in diameter . after pretreatment with haloperidol , dopamine ( 1 x 10 ( -6 ) to 1 x 10 ( -4 ) m ) did not dilate any pre- or postglomerular vascular segment , but the tendency for pre- and postglomerular constrictions with higher dopamine concentrations were not abolished . pretreatment with phentolamine and propranolol enhanced the dilator response of the pre- and postglomerular vessels ( except the afferent arterioles near glomeruli and efferent arterioles near welling points ) to dopamine ( 3 x 10 ( -5 ) and 1 x 10 ( -4 ) m ) , and abolished the reductions in diameter produced by the high dopamine levels . these data indicate that the dilator effect of dopamine is mediated by interactions with specific dopaminergic receptors , while alpha and beta adrenergic receptors appear to mediate a constrictor influence observed with high dopamine concentrations . the overall effect of dopamine on the renal vessel diameters thus appears to depend on the balance of dilator and constrictor stimuli mediated by multiple receptors . 
continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis and bone . we studied the effects of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) on the histological manifestations of uremic bone disease . twelve patients underwent bone biopsy immediately prior to and after one year of such treatment . those with larger quantities of non-mineralized bone matrix ( osteoid ) experienced a reduction in relative osteoid volume , mean osteoid seam width , and total osteoid surface . moreover , the use of time-spaced kinetic markers of mineralization ( tetracycline ) enabled us to demonstrate that capd usually decreased the amount of non-mineralized bone matrix by shortening mineralization lag time ( that is , the interval from organic matrix deposition to its mineralization ) . the changes in the histomorphology appeared to occur independently of bone aluminum . these data indicate that capd generally enhances the mineralizing capacity of individual osteoblasts and suggests that such therapy is beneficial to the uremic skeleton . 
isolation and chemical identification of inhibitors of plasma ligand binding . the binding by serum albumin of many drugs and endogenous metabolites is impaired in humans and animals with renal failure . unknown solute ( s ) retained in renal failure have been extracted from uremic fluids . when added to normal plasma they induce a similar binding defect . similar activity can be extracted from normal urine . we have devised a series of extraction and purification techniques that yielded three binding inhibitory ligands from normal human urine in sufficient quantity and of a high degree of purity . rigorous methods have been applied to determine chemical identity of the ligands . purification steps consisted of : adsorption at ph 3.0 to polystyrene-divinylbenzene resin ( xad-2 ) ; elution from the resin with methanol followed by drying and solution in dilute formic acid ; passage through sp-sephadex to remove cations , especially yellow-brown pigments ; adsorption to the anion exchanger qae-sephadex , and separation into three zones of inhibitory activity with a formic acid gradient ; purification to homogeneity with c-8 or c-18 silica reversed-phase chromatography . using this isolation procedure , followed by mass spectroscopy and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy , we have shown that the binding inhibitory activity is due not to one ligand , but to a family of aromatic acids . to date hippurate , beta- ( m-hydroxyphenyl ) -hydracrylate and p-hydroxyphenylacetate have been identified as binding inhibitors . other active ligands remain to be identified . 
factors determining renal response to water immersion in non-excretor cirrhotic patients . non-excretor cirrhotic patients , defined by their inability to normally excrete a standard water load , display variable responses to head-out water immersion . the hemodynamic , hormonal , and renal functional status of fifteen such patients were analyzed relative to water excretion during head-out water immersion . group 1 patients ( n = 7 ) all excreted less than 40 % of the water load during immersion , whereas excretion was greater than 40 % in all eight patients in group 2. group 1 patients , when compared with group 2 , had more ascites , more diuretic resistance , lower serum sodium concentration ( 125 + / - 2 vs . 130 + / - 1 meq / liter , p less than 0.05 ) , and more impaired baseline water excretion ( 12.9 + / - 1.2 vs . 35.9 + / - 5.9 % of water load in 5 hr , p less than 0.005 ) . systemic hemodynamic responses to water immersion were similar in both groups . glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow were significantly more impaired in group 1 patients ( inulin clearance 28 + / - 6 vs . 62 + / - 9 ml / min / 1.73 m2 , p less than 0.05 ; para-aminohippurate clearance 212 + / - 35 vs . 357 + / - 37 ml / min , p less than 0.05 ) . concentrations of plasma vasopressin ( 1.7 + / - 0.5 vs . 0.8 + / - 0.1 pg / ml , p less than 0.05 ) , renin ( 8.6 + / - 1.7 vs . 3.8 + / - 0.9 ng / ml / hr , p less than 0.05 ) , aldosterone ( 82 + / - 14 vs . 39 + / - 10 ng / dl , p less than 0.05 ) and norepinephrine ( 1155 + / - 183 vs . 603 + / - 126 pg / ml , p less than 0.05 ) were all significantly higher in group 1 than group 2 patients during water immersion . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
successful management of uric acid nephrolithiasis with potassium citrate . eighteen patients with uric acid nephrolithiasis ( six with uric acid stones alone and 12 with both uric acid and calcium stones ) underwent long-term treatment ( 1 to 5.33 years , mean of 2.78 years ) with potassium citrate ( 30 to 80 meq / day , usually 60 meq / day ) . urinary ph increased from low ( 5.30 + / - 0.31 sd ) to normal ( 6.19 to 6.46 ) during treatment . urinary content of undissociated uric acid , which was high to begin with at 204 + / - 82 mg / day , decreased to the normal range ( 64 to 108 mg / day ) following treatment . urinary citrate rose from 503 + / - 225 mg / day to 852 to 998 mg / day . urinary saturation of calcium oxalate significantly declined with potassium citrate treatment . new stone formation rate declined from 1.20 + / - 1.68 stones / year to 0.01 + / - 0.04 stones / year ( p less than 0.001 by chi square ) . remission was experienced in 94.4 % of patients , and the group stone formation rate declined by 99.2 % . detailed case reports were obtained in five patients showing different responses between sodium alkali and potassium alkali treatment . all five patients had persistently low urinary ph ( typically less than 5.5 ) and normouricosuria , and four had hyperuricemia . before treatment , they had stones surgically removed or spontaneously passed , which were pure uric acid in composition . when sodium alkali was give ( as bicarbonate or citrate , 60 to 118 meq / day ) , new stone formation continued in four patients , and a radiolucent ( uric acid ) calculus become " calcified " in the remaining patient . the stone analysis disclosed calcium oxalate in five patients and calcium phosphate in three patients . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
permeability and secondary membrane formation of a high flux polysulfone hemofilter . it has been assumed that the molecular weight ( mw ) cut-off of a newly fabricated polysulfone capillary dialyzer ( f60 , fresenius , frg ) is similar to that of the human glomerulus . we recently tested the device in vivo and found this not to be so , based on the device 's ability to eliminate substances of a mw of 10 , 000 to 60 , 000 daltons . one of the reasons for this discrepancy was found to be the influence of secondary membrane formation on solute permeability . endogenous marker substances of a defined mw ( beta 2-microglobulin , myoglobin , rbp , alpha 1-microglobulin , acid alpha 1-glycoprotein , alpha 1-antitrypsin , prealbumin , and albumin were measured by laser nephelometry or radioimmune assay ; sieving coefficients ( sc ) and protein eliminations were calculated for each low mw protein . 
a new method of inducing experimental chronic renal failure by cryosurgery . 
abstracts . swiss society of nephrology . lucerne , switzerland , december 6 , 1985. 
tubulo-interstitial lesions mediate renal damage in adriamycin glomerulopathy . the present study was designed to investigate the relationship between proteinuria , focal sclerosis , and tubulo-interstitial changes in the evolution of renal damage in experimental nephrosis . we utilized an accelerated unilateral model of adriamycin ( adr ) nephrosis characterized by morphological changes more severe than in the classical model . the first events in adr-induced glomerulopathy were epithelial cell damage and proteinuria . subsequently , tubular casts were formed at the distal level . the cast formation preceded the development of interstitial damage , which was determined by tubular obstruction and breaking of tubular basement membrane ( tbm ) , which in turn promoted an interstitial inflammatory reaction . despite the severity of tubulo-interstitial damage observed after a long period of heavy proteinuria , the incidence of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis ( fsg ) was very low . the results of the present study indicate that chronic proteinuria is not necessarily accompanied by the development of focal sclerosis . tubulo-interstitial lesions appear to be the most important determinant for the progression of renal damage in this model . 
response of spontaneously hypertensive rats to 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 in vivo . calcium absorption in spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr ) has been reported to be increased , decreased or not different from their normotensive wistar kyoto ( wky ) control . one postulated reason for these conflicting results is an abnormal sensitivity to the intestinal effects of 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2d3 ( 1 , 25d3 ) . previous studies in everted duodenal sacs and perfused duodenum examined the acute response to 1 , 25d3 only in 12-week-old shr , which however already had higher basal rates of calcium absorption . inability to stimulate ca absorption further was an unexcluded possibility . to test this hypothesis more vigorously , balance and in situ duodenal 45ca uptake studies were performed in shr and wky using four separate protocols yielding the following results . first , in response to pharmacological doses of 1 , 25d3 ( 25 ng / 100 g body wt / day x 3 ) , four-week-old normotensive female shr had higher net calcium absorption ( 41.4 vs . 31.1 mg / day ; 61.6 vs . 48.1 % ) , similar to the increases seen in the untreated state . these results suggest intrinsic epithelial differences independent of 1 , 25d3 . ca absorption was similarly higher in 1 , 25d3 treated male shr ( 42.9 vs . 36.7 mg / day ; 60.1 vs . 53.7 % ) . second , at 12 to 14 weeks of age , low doses of 1 , 25d3 ( 8 ng / 100 g body wt / day x 6 ) stimulated net ca absorption in the female shr ( 33.0 to 39.1 mg / day ) , but not in wky ( 26.8 to 29.3 mg / day ) . in the male , positive effects were again seen only in the shr ( 25 to 45 mg / day ) . third , in response to three weeks of dietary ca deprivation , in situ duodenal 45ca uptake , measured in the conscious awake state , was higher in 35-week-old shr ( 70.9 vs . 53.0 % ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
effects of angiotensin ii on plasma antidiuretic hormone and renal water excretion . the effects of intravenous ( i.v. ) and intracarotid ( ic ) angiotensin ii ( aii ) infusion on systemic and renal hemodynamics , renal water excretion , and plasma antidiuretic hormone ( adh ) levels were examined in six conscious dogs under water loaded and hydropenic conditions . in the first group of seven studies , aii in a mean dose of 12.7 ng / kg / min was administered i.v. to water loaded dogs . the infusion induced a significant increase in mean arterial pressure ( map , 99 to 118 mm hg , p less than 0.001 ) , and significant reductions in both glomerular filtration rate ( gfr , 67 to 57 ml / min , p less than 0.05 ) and para-aminohippurate clearance ( cpah , 280 to 212 ml / min , p less than 0.005 ) occurred . despite this decrement in renal hemodynamics , urine remained maximally dilute ( uosm , 58 to 61 mosm / kg h2o , ns ) . furthermore , plasma adh was suppressed maximally after water load and did not increase after i.v. aii infusion . the ic infusion of aii ( mean dose 5.8 ng / kg / min ) produced similar changes in hemodynamics ; plasma adh remained undetectable . when aii was administered i.v. to hydropenic animals ( mean dose 8.3 ng / kg / min ) , map again increased ( 86 to 111 mm hg , p less than 0.001 ) as gfr ( 81.3 to 68.6 ml / min , ns ) and cpah ( 291 to 223 ml / min , p less than 0.05 ) declined modestly . in these animals , uosm decreased significantly ( 1429 to 1114 mosm / kg h2o , p less than 0.005 ) and plasma adh did not change significantly ( 1.66 to 1.88 pg / ml , ns ) . when ic aii ( 4 ng / kg / min ) was repeated in hydropenic dogs pretreated with indomethacin , neither usom ( 1787 to 1664 mosm / kg h2o , ns ) nor plasma adh were altered . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
chronic effects of dietary protein in the rat with intact and reduced renal mass . the chronic effects of dietary protein on renal structure and function were studied in rats with normal and reduced renal mass . control rats with two kidneys were compared with unilaterally nephrectomized rats , and with one and one-third nephrectomized rats obtained by unilateral nephrectomy and infarction of one-third of the remaining kidney . rats at each level of renal mass were maintained on chow containing either 6 % or 40 % protein content . separate cohorts of rats were studied four and eight months after ablation and institution of these dietary regimens . at both time intervals and at all levels of renal mass , rats fed the high protein diet had higher average values for gfr than comparable animals fed the low protein chow . within each of the dietary regimens the animals with loss of renal mass developed greater prevalences of sclerotic glomeruli by eight months . furthermore , at each level of initial renal mass , rats eating the high protein diet had a greater prevalence of sclerotic glomeruli than those on the low protein diet . similarly , rats on the high protein diet had greater rates of protein excretion than those on the low protein diet at each degree of ablation . the prevalence of sclerosed glomeruli increased between four and eight months in each group . thus , the extent of renal injury as manifested by proteinuria and glomerular sclerosis was directly related to the degree of initial loss of renal mass , and dietary protein restriction retarded these manifestations of injury across a wide range of initial renal mass . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
effect of a high nacl diet on the active mechanisms of na+ extrusion in rat kidney . healthy male rats were exposed to a chronic ingesta of an isotonic nacl solution during a period of four months . two different preparations were utilized to study the effect of this treatment on the active mechanisms of na+ reabsorption of kidney proximal tubular cells : outermost kidney cortex slices ( rich in proximal tubules ) and inside-out basolateral plasma membrane vesicles prepared from the same tissue . it was found that the activity of the ouabain-insensitive , na-pump of basolateral plasma membranes of kidney proximal tubular cells was increased in about 70 % , whereas the ouabain-sensitive , na , k-pump activity did not change with the experimental treatment . these results represent a strong support to the two na-pump 's hypothesis since the treatment affected the na-pump differentially without affecting the na , k-pump . 
paradoxical potassium depletion : a renal mechanism for extrarenal potassium adaptation . following nephrectomy and acute potassium loading , animals previously maintained on a high potassium diet have a smaller increment in plasma potassium than do animals on a control diet . the mechanism of this " extrarenal potassium adaptation " is not known . to explore the role of potassium depletion in this process , we studied rats adapted to either a high potassium ( hk ) or control ( c ) diet . when dietary potassium was withdrawn , urinary potassium losses in hk rats greatly exceeded those in c rats for at least two days , leading to greater potassium depletion in hk than c animals . a smaller increment in plasma potassium in hk compared to c rats was seen only after prolonged fasting preceded nephrectomy and acute potassium loading . correction of potassium depletion incurred during fasting abolished extrarenal potassium adaptation . we conclude : after withdrawal of dietary potassium , urinary potassium losses are much greater in hk than in c rats ; if the duration of dietary potassium deprivation is sufficient , these urinary potassium losses will cause potassium-adapted animals to paradoxically become more potassium depleted than controls ; and this paradoxical potassium depletion may be responsible for extrarenal potassium adaptation . 
role for angiotensin ii in an overt functional proteinuria . a partial renal vein constriction ( rvc ) was induced acutely in munich-wistar rats . rvc caused a marked reduction in glomerular plasma flow rate , and rises in glomerular transcapillary hydraulic pressure difference and efferent arteriolar resistance . these changes were associated with a marked increase in urinary protein excretion , on average from a baseline level of 8 to approximately 120 mg / 24 hrs per kidney . infusion of saralasin , an angiotensin ii ( aii ) antagonist , largely normalized these indices , including urinary protein excretion ( to approximately 35 mg / 24 hrs per kidney ) , despite continued rvc . in separate rats , fractional clearances of neutral [ 125i ] dextrans ( molecular radii = 18-60 a ) ( cdex / cin ) were measured . rvc caused a significant increase in cdex / cin for large dextrans ( greater than or equal to 44a ) , but not small dextrans ( less than or equal to 42a ) . saralasin infusion led to a partial return toward baseline values of cdex / cin for the large dextrans . on the basis of the heteroporous membrane theory for glomerular filtration , the glomerular sieving defect during rvc was attributed to an increase in the relative fluid flux through a group of large non-selective pores . a marked alteration in glomerular microcirculatory pattern induced by enhanced action of endogenous aii in turn seemed to account largely , although not entirely , for the impairment of glomerular size-selectivity during rvc . 
segmental characterization of defects in collecting tubule acidification . the aim of this study was to investigate cortical collecting tubule ( cct ) function in normal individuals and in patients with distal renal tubular acidosis ( drta ) using furosemide ( 80 mg orally ) as a tool to stimulate h+ and k+ secretion by enhancing na delivery and transport in this nephron segment . in ten normal subjects , furosemide resulted in a fall in urine ph below 5.5 and an increase in net acid and k+ excretion . these effects were obliterated by amiloride , a drug which decreases transtubular epithelial voltage ( lumen-negative ) in the cct by blocking na reabsorption . in 13 patients with drta , defined by failure to lower urine ph below 5.5 during acidemia , three distinctive responses to furosemide were found . in six patients with the hyperkalemic variety , furosemide failed to lower urine ph below 5.5 and resulted in a blunted increase in k+ excretion , thereby suggesting that a normal transtubular voltage in the cct could not be generated in such patients . in five patients with classic rta , furosemide failed to lower urine ph below 5.5 , but k+ excretion increased normally . the increase in k+ excretion indicated that a normal transtubular voltage in the cct could be generated , while the inability to lower urine ph denotes the presence of a proton pump defect involving the cct . in two patients with classic rta , furosemide resulted in both a normal fall in urine ph and an increase in k+ excretion , thereby indicating that the cct was normal in regards to both proton pump function and in its ability to generate a normal transtubular voltage . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
platelet cationic proteins are present in glomeruli of lupus nephritis patients . synthetic polycations have been shown to bind and neutralize glomerular polyanions ( gpa ) , thereby increasing the permeability of the glomerular capillary wall ( gcw ) . in the present study it is demonstrated that human platelet-derived cationic proteins ( huplt cp ) , which are able to increase cutaneous vascular permeability , bind in vitro to the gcw following incubation of normal human kidney sections with purified huplt cp or with washed human platelets stimulated with thrombin , immune complexes ( ic ) and platelet-activating factor ( paf ) , or stimulated with a suspension of washed human platelets and polymorphonuclear leukocytes in the presence of phagocytable substrate . the antiserum used in immunofluorescence test to detect the binding of huplt cp was specific for two different molecular types of huplt cp , both with an isoelectric point ( pi ) of 10.5 . glomerular deposits of huplt cp were also detectable by immunofluorescence microscopy in renal glomeruli present in tissue obtained by biopsy from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) , a disease in which platelets have been implicated as mediator of glomerular injury . these data indicate that when activated platelets release huplt cp in vivo , these proteins bind to glomerular structures . the binding of huplt cp to gcw appears to be ionic in nature since heparin , a polyanion , prevents this binding in vitro . in addition , heparin , as well as a high molarity buffer , removed deposits of huplt cp bound in vitro to normal gcw or bound in vivo to glomeruli of patients with sle . the binding of huplt cp to gcw is associated with loss of colloidal iron staining , a qualitative technique that demonstrates primarily epithelial cell surface anionic sialoglycoproteins . in experiments of in vitro binding of purified huplt cp to section of normal kidney treatment with heparin completely restores the normal pattern of colloidal iron staining suggesting ionic neutralization of gpa . in contrast , heparin is only partially effective in restoring colloidal iron staining in normal kidney sections treated with platelets directly stimulated with ic or paf or in kidney sections of patients with sle . these observations indicate that under these conditions the ionic interaction of huplt cp with gcw is only partially responsible for the loss of colloidal iron staining . the results of the present study suggest that biologically active polycationic mediators released from stimulated platelets localize in gcw and participate in the induction of glomerular injury . 
plasma free , sulfo- and glucuro-conjugated catecholamines in uremic patients . the metabolism of catecholamines ( ca ) in non-selected patients with chronic renal failure and under hemodialysis ( crfh ) was studied by measuring the concentration of plasma free , sulfo- and glucuroconjugated ca , dopamine ( da ) , norepinephrine ( ne ) , and epinephrine ( epi ) . our data demonstrate a statistically significant increase of free da and free ne concentration in crfh , while that of free epi was not different from controls . however a careful scrutiny of 35 individual data suggests that sub-groups of patients with either high normal or low plasma-free ne concentration could exist ; this likely heterogeneity could be a good explanation for conflicting conclusions provided by previous reports . suspecting that conjugated ca might be altered in crfh , plasma sulfo- and glucuro-conjugated da , ne and epi were also measured . we have found a predictable and highly significant increase of sulfo-conjugated ca ; plasma concentration of glucuro-conjugated da and ne in crfh was not different from controls , while that of glucuro-conjugated epi was significantly increased . the physiological meaning , if any , of these new observations on conjugated ca cannot be assessed at the moment . the effects of hemodialysis were also investigated . measurements on the arterial and on the venous line showed highly significant differences for tyrosine , free and sulfo-conjugated ca , and a lack of difference for glucuro-conjugated ca . thus tyrosine , free and sulfo-conjugated ca were eliminated by the artificial kidney , but not glucuro-conjugated amines . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
effect of age and diabetes on type iv collagen and laminin in human kidney cortex . specific radioimmunoassays for the 7-s domain of type iv collagen and the fragment p1 of laminin were used to quantify these basement membrane proteins in human kidney cortex at different ages and in some patients with diabetes mellitus . the antigens were solubilized by treating the tissue samples with the proteolytic enzymes collagenase , trypsin and pepsin . total collagen content ( as indicated by hydroxyproline concentration ) increased with age , and the proportion of the collagen that could be solubilized by any enzyme treatment decreased . the type iv collagen concentration increased significantly with age , whereas the laminin concentration tended to decrease . in the one case of a type i diabetic the amounts of both antigens exceeded those in the age matched controls . in four type ii diabetics the results were comparable with those for other aged cases . the distribution of the proteins was studied using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method . the staining intensity and thickness of both antigens increased with age in the mesangium and bowmans capsules , the change in type iv collagen staining being more evident . in diabetic patients these changes were more pronounced and other basement membranes appeared thicker in the stainings . these results indicate that basement membrane material accumulates in the kidney cortex during aging and that an alteration takes place in the composition of the basement membranes , the proportion of type iv collagen increasing and that of laminin decreasing . 
immune complex glomerulopathy in a child with food hypersensitivity . this report describes the occurrence of immune complex glomerulonephritis in a patient with eosinophilic gastroenteritis and food hypersensitivity . a coincident allergen injection may have been a contributing factor in the sudden development of the nephrotic syndrome . markedly elevated levels of circulating immune complexes ( greater than 6400 mg / dl ) were found containing kappa-casein and bovine serum albumin ( bsa ) , the latter predominating . markedly elevated serum bsa hemagglutinating titers were also present ( 1 : 40 , 960 ) . cross-reacting precipitating antibodies to bsa , beef , and pork were demonstrated , but not to flounder or ovalbumin . renal biopsy revealed immune complex glomerulonephritis with bsa , immunoglobulins m and g and complement deposited focally in the glomerular basement membrane . with strict dietary limitation of identified causative antigens and prednisone therapy , cic levels decreased to 16 , 000 micrograms / dl and serum bsa antibody hemagglutinating titer fell 32-fold over a period of 15 months . there was prompt symptomatic relief and amelioration of signs of nephritis . the patient was able to consume a diet normal in protein and caloric content , and statural catch-up growth occurred . recognition of food antigens to which the patient was hypersensitive provided a rationale for the relief of the gastrointestinal disturbance , growth stunting , and renal disease . 
trace elements in serum , packed cells , and dialysate of capd patients . neutron activation analysis ( naa ) was used to investigate trace element patterns in serum , packed cells , and dialysate of capd patients . the concentrations of the elements cs , cu , fe , and mn in serum and packed cells appeared to be maintained within the normal range , while the levels of the non-essential element br in both serum and packed cells were subnormal . the serum cr values were extremely high ( 20 to 50 times higher than the normal serum level ) . the amount of cr absorbed from the dialysate was calculated to be ten times higher than the daily dietary uptake . the co concentrations were normal in packed cells but were significantly increased in serum . the rb content in packed cells was slightly lower than normal , while the serum value was normal . se was maintained within the normal range in packed cells , but the serum concentration was slightly lower than normal . the concentrations of zn were low in serum and appeared to be higher than normal in packed cells . in conclusion , this analysis of the trace element status of capd patients reveals two major abnormalities . there is an apparent loss of br from the blood towards the dialysate and on the other hand , a dramatic accumulation of cr into the blood as a result of the very high cr content in the dialysate . 
abstracts . dutch society of nephrology . 29th scientific meeting . leuven , belgium , april 12 , 1986. 
abstracts . societe de nephrologie . paris , france , january 29 , 1986. 
light chain effects on alanine and glucose uptake by renal brush border membranes . effect of varying concentrations ( 0 to 800 microm ) of three different light chains on sodium-dependent l- ( 14c ) alanine and d- ( 14c ) glucose uptake by rat renal brush border membrane vesicles were studied . one kappa and two lambda type light chains ( lambda-1 and lambda-2 ) were isolated from urines of patients with multiple myeloma . at maximal inhibitory concentrations the kappa chain reduced alanine uptake from 206 + / - 18 to 77 + / - 18 pmole / mg protein ( p less than 0.005 ) and glucose uptake from 357 + / - 22 to 146 + / - 8 pmole / mg protein ( p less than 0.001 ) . lambda-1 reduced alanine uptake from 136 + / - 17 to 60 + / - 8 pmole / mg protein ( p less than 0.005 ) and glucose uptake from 354 + / - 17 to 77 + / - 14 pmole / mg protein ( p less than 0.001 ) . lambda-2 reduced alanine uptake from 105 + / - 9 to 28 + / - 5 pmole / mg protein ( p less than 0.001 ) and glucose uptake from 194 + / - 7 to 66 + / - 7 pmole / mg protein ( p less than 0.001 ) . the half maximal inhibitory concentrations ( i50 ) of kappa , lambda-1 and lambda-2 light chains were 68 , 76 and 140 microm for alanine uptake and 120 , 70 and 105 microm for glucose uptake . control experiments using bovine serum albumin and beta-lactoglobulin showed no inhibitory effect on alanine and glucose uptake by either protein . these data reveal brush border membrane effects by myeloma light chains and confirm that direct bence jones protein nephrotoxicity may play an important role in the pathogenesis of kidney dysfunction associated with multiple myeloma . 
immune complex induced glomerular lesions in c5 sufficient and deficient mice . the role in the pathogenesis of immune complex-mediated glomerulonephritis of c5 or some terminal complement component dependent upon c5 for activation was explored in a congenic strain of c5 sufficient ( nsn ) and c5 deficient ( osn ) mice . when these mice were given daily injections of heterologous protein , horse apoferritin ( haf ) , there were profound differences between the strains in the development of glomerulonephritis and renal dysfunction . when nsn and osn mice produced low levels of anti-haf , nsn mice developed extensive glomerular deposits of haf and immune reactants and a mild proliferative glomerulonephritis . in contrast , comparable osn mice developed only trace mesangial localization of haf and no glomerular lesions by light microscopy . when nsn and osn mice produced high levels of anti-haf , both strains had equivalent glomerular immune deposits ; however , nsn mice developed a severe necrotizing and crescentic glomerulonephritis , while osn mice had much less glomerular injury . compared to osn mice , these nsn mice also had much more severe tubulointerstitial injury , and significantly higher serum creatinine levels . thus , in this experimental model , the absence of c5 resulted in reduced glomerular immune complex localization when there were small amounts of circulating immune reactants ; and in markedly reduced glomerular leukocyte influx , necrosis and crescent formation , when large amounts of immune reactants have localized in glomeruli . these effects could be mediated by c5 ( such as c5a ) or by some terminal complement component ( s ) dependent upon c5 for activation . 
role of amount and nature of carbohydrates in the course of experimental renal failure . the renal effects of carbohydrates ( cho ) were studied in two experiments . 1 ) the effects of cho-energy restriction was evaluated by comparing uremic growing rats ( initial weight : 80 g ) fed " ad lib " ( l rats ) or cho-restricted ( starch and glucose ) but receiving identical amounts of all other nutrients ( r rats ) . r rats showed reduced growth , slower increase in plasma creatinine , lower mortality rate , and less histological renal damage than l rats . 2 ) two types of cho restriction , low glucose ( r1 rats ) or low starch ( r2 rats ) were compared to " ad lib " feeding ( l1 rats ) in adult rats ( initial weight : 130 g ) . growth was identically reduced in r1 and r2 rats . mean plasma creatinine levels at week four was lower in r1 than in l1 rats . the overall rate mortality was higher for l1 and r2 than in r1 rats ( 79 % , 81 % , 53 % ) but included deaths from other causes than renal failure . actuarial survival excluding these deaths was 27 % , 83 % and 10 % in l1 , r1 and r2 rats , respectively . diffuse renal lesions were found in 25 of 30 l1 , 5 of 15 r1 , and 12 of 15 r2 rats ( r1 vs . r1 and r2 , p less than 0.01 ) . the results show that cho restriction may preserve the renal parenchyma , and suggest that restriction of " simple " rather than " complex " cho restriction may be beneficial , a finding which could be of clinical importance if confirmed by further investigations . 
the effects of metabolic acidosis on bone formation and bone resorption in the rat . metabolic acidosis ( ma ) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of both osteomalacia and osteopenia . alterations in the secretion of parathyroid hormone and in the metabolism of vitamin d may contribute to such skeletal changes . to minimize the influence of these factors , quantitative bone histology and measurements of bone formation using double tetracycline labeling were done in thyroparathyroidectomized ( tptx ) rats with ma induced by ammonium chloride ( tptx-a ) , and in both non-acidotic tptx ( tptx-c ) and intact ( c ) controls . to evaluate the response of both cortical and trabecular bone to ma , histologic studies were done at three separate sites in the tibia , cortical bone from the mid-shaft , and trabecular bone from the epiphysis and from the metaphysis . plasma ph was lower in tptx-a , 7.24 + / - 0.10 , than in either tptx-c , 7.39 + / - 0.03 , or c , 7.43 + / - 0.04 , p less than 0.01 , and urinary hydroxyproline excretion increased from 89.8 + / - 8.7 in tptx-c to 150.2 + / - 25.9 micrograms / mg / creatinine in tptx-a , p less than 0.01 . resorption surface at the epiphysis increased from 1.8 + / - 0.6 % in tptx-c to 4.0 + / - 1.6 % in tptx-a , p less than 0.05 , values not different from those in c , 3.1 + / - 1.1 % . resorption surface was unchanged at other skeletal sites , but total bone volume at the metaphysis fell from 15.5 + / - 5.6 % in tptx-c to 9.0 + / - 4.3 % in tptx-a , p less than 0.05 . bone formation was reduced at each skeletal site in tptx-a vs . tptx-c , p less than 0.05 for all values , but histologic evidence of osteomalacia was not observed . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
stainable aluminum and not aluminum content reflects bone histology in dialyzed patients . quantitative evaluation of stainable bone aluminum and measurement of bone aluminum content were done in 55 patients on chronic maintenance dialysis . all patients underwent bone biopsies . histomorphometry of static and dynamic parameters of bone structure , bone formation and resorption , and quantitation of stainable bone aluminum at the osteoid-bone interface were performed . in addition , bone aluminum content was measured by atomic absorption spectrophotometry . bone aluminum content was elevated in all patients ( 81 + / - 9.6 vs . 18 + / - 6 micrograms / g dry wt ) and stainable aluminum was found in 47 % of them . all patients with predominant low-turnover osteomalacia or adynamic bone disease displayed stainable bone aluminum . in contrast , stainable bone aluminum was not present in individuals with predominant-hyperparathyroid bone disease . patients with stainable aluminum had lower bone mass ( p less than 0.05 ) , higher volume and surface of lamellar osteoid ( p less than 0.01 ) , less volume and surface of woven osteoid ( p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.01 ) , lower osteoblastic and osteoclastic indices ( p less than 0.01 ) , less doubly labelled osteoid seams , lower mineral apposition rate and lower bone formation rates ( p less than 0.05 to p less than 0.01 ) . stainable aluminum correlated with volume of lamellar osteoid and cellular parameters of bone formation and resorption , mineral apposition rate , and bone formation rates ( p less than 0.05 to p less than 0.001 ) . in contrast , bone aluminum content correlated with volume of lamellar osteoid only ( p less than 0.001 ) . these findings indicate that stainable aluminum at the mineralization front and not aluminum content of bone reflects the histopathologic changes found in bone of dialyzed patients . 
the importance of plasma protein for blood volume and blood pressure homeostasis . to evaluate the influence of plasma protein concentration and colloid osmotic pressure ( cop ) on blood volume and blood pressure , we studied 40 patients with the nephrotic syndrome ( plasma protein 41.1 + / - 5.3 g / liter , cop 10.9 + / - 2.2 mm hg ) and 43 patients with chronic renal failure ( plasma protein 65.0 + / - 5.8 g / liter , cop 22.4 + / - 3.0 mm hg ) at overhydration , during gradual edema removal to normal hydration , and occasionally , to mild dehydration . the number of measure points was 113 in the nephrotic syndrome and 92 in renal failure . in both groups blood volume was normal at normal extracellular fluid volume ( ecfv ) . elevation of ecfv to 300 % of normal in the nephrotic syndrome occurred with only a modest elevation of blood volume ( ns ) . elevation of ecfv to 200 % of normal in the patients with renal failure was attended by a major elevation of blood volume ( p less than 0.01 ) . reduction of ecfv to about 10 % below normal was accompanied by parallel blood volume reduction in both groups . blood pressure was comparable at normohydration , and increased to clearly hypertensive levels only in the renal failure group with increasing ecfv and blood volume ( p less than 0.01 ) . no major blood pressure difference was observed between normal and subnormal hydration , but hypotension was observed twice in the nephrotic group . apparently , patients with severe hypoproteinemia due to the nephrotic syndrome are generally able to preserve their blood volume even when free of edema . however , their blood volume is not elevated in overhydration , in contrast to patients with renal failure who are normoproteinemic . this difference in regulation of extracellular fluid distribution is probably related to the hypoproteinemia , and its effect to reduce tissue-fluid protein . 
energy expenditure in patients with chronic renal failure . although nondialyzed , chronically uremic patients and patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis often show evidence for wasting and calorie malnutrition and have low dietary energy intakes , their energy expenditure has never been systematically evaluated . it is possible that low energy intakes are an adaptive response to reduced energy needs ; alternatively , energy expenditure could be normal or high and the low energy intakes would be inappropriate . energy expenditure was therefore measured by indirect calorimetry in 12 normal individuals , 10 nondialyzed patients with chronic renal failure , and 16 patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis . energy expenditure was measured in the resting state , during quiet sitting , during controlled exercise on an exercise bicycle , and for four hours after ingestion of a test meal . resting energy expenditure ( kcal / min / 1.73 m2 ) in the normal subjects , chronically uremic patients and hemodialysis patients was , respectively , 0.94 + / - 0.24 ( sd ) , 0.91 + / - 0.20 , and 0.97 + / - 0.10 . there was also no difference among the three groups in energy expenditure during sitting , exercise , or the postprandial state . within each group , energy expenditure during resting and sitting was directly correlated . during bicycling , energy expenditure was directly correlated with work performed , and the regression equation for this relationship was similar in each of the three groups . these findings suggest that for a given physical activity , energy expenditure in nondialyzed , chronically uremic patients and maintenance hemodialysis patients is not different from normal . the low energy intakes of many of these patients may be inadequate for their needs . 
the absorption of dietary phosphorus and calcium in hemodialysis patients . absorption of dietary phosphorus plays a critical role in the development of metabolic bone diseases in patients with chronic renal failure . however , phosphorus absorption is difficult to quantitate in dialysis patients because the dialysis treatments complicate metabolic balance studies . utilizing a recently developed technique which permits measurement of net absorption of dietary constituents after a single meal , we measured phosphorus absorption in dialysis patients . the following observations were made : a . ) following a meal containing approximately 300 mg phosphorus , mean phosphorus absorption in five hemodialysis patients ( with severe vitamin d deficiency ) was only slightly less than in matched controls ( 186 + / - 35 vs . 242 + / - 30 ) . b . ) after dialysis patients were treated with 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2-d3 , phosphorus absorption increased from 186 + / - 35 to 272 + / - 16 mg ( p less than 0.025 ) . c . ) the effect of three aluminum containing antacids on phosphorus absorption was studied ; each slightly reduced the absorption of phosphorus compared to placebo ( p less than 0.01 ) , but there was no significant difference between them . d . ) aluminum hydroxide and calcium carbonate each reduced dietary phosphorus absorption to approximately the same extent . calcium carbonate ingestion was associated with sharply increased calcium absorption . the absorption of dietary phosphorus is influenced only modestly by 1 , 25 ( oh ) 2-d3 and is inhibited to an equal but only modest degree by various aluminum antacids and by calcium carbonate . 
effects of acute and chronic dosing of nsaids in patients with renal insufficiency . administration of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) to patients with chronically impaired renal function has been reported to cause abrupt and sustained reductions in renal plasma flow ( rpf ) , glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) , and solute and water excretion in association with decreased renal prostanoid production . however , the time course of these acute effects and whether they are sustained during chronic exposure to the nsaids are unknown . accordingly , using standard clearance and balance techniques , we investigated the effects of acute ( zero to four hours ) and chronic ( five days ) oral administration of two different nsaids on renal function in patients with stable , mild to moderate chronic renal insufficiency ( cri ) and in normal subjects . in patients , acute oral administration of ketoprofen ( k ) and indomethacin ( i ) resulted in significant decreases in gfr ( k : from 36 + / - 3 to 20 + / - 4 ml / min , p = 0.001 ; i : from 37 + / - 6 to 30 + / - 7 ml / min , p = 0.032 ; in rpf ( k : from 194 + / - 21 to 146 + / - 21 ml / min , p = 0.002 ; i : from 222 + / - 33 to 147 + / - 18 ml / min , p = 0.016 ) ; and in urinary pge2 excretion ( k : from 0.60 + / - 0.25 to 0.08 + / - 0.02 ng / min , p = 0.05 ; i : from 0.34 + / - 0.06 to 0.18 + / - 0.06 ng / min , p = 0.042 ) . fractional excretion of sodium chloride and fractional free water clearance ( ch2o / cin ) also decreased significantly after both agents . in normal subjects , gfr and rpf were not significantly decreased after acute dosing , whereas urinary pge2 and fractional excretions of nacl and free water decreased significantly . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
clinical studies on serum immunosuppressive acidic protein ( iap ) and ferritin in gastric cancer patients : with special reference to preoperative value and influence of surgical stress . serum iap and ferritin values were measured preoperatively in 83 resectable gastric cancer patients . iap was significantly higher in them than in normal subjects , and increased gradually with progression of cancer , and the values at stages iii and iv were significantly higher than that at stage i . it was significantly higher in the cases of n ( + ) than in those of n ( - ) , and in the cases of noncurative resection than in those of curative resection . ferritin was significantly higher in them than in normal subjects and mammary cancer patients , and in males than in females , and the values at stages i and iv were significantly higher than that at stage iii . ok-432 was serially administered pre- and postoperatively in 83 cases and only postoperatively in 33 cases . iap increased markedly at 1 week postoperatively and was reduced gradually at 2 and 4 weeks . ferritin increased markedly at 1 week after operation and reached the maximum value at 2 weeks and was reduced toward the value of 1 week at 4 weeks . however , these changes showed no significant difference between the both groups . 
giant basal cell carcinoma with metastases and myelophthisic anemia . we report a 59-year-old , dark-complexioned black man with a giant basal cell carcinoma infiltrating virtually the entire scalp . widespread metastatic bone marrow involvement produced a myelophthisic anemia . basal cell carcinoma is rare in blacks , is rarely this large , and very rarely produces myelophthisic anemia from bone marrow metastases . 
an unusual site of presentation for hodgkin 's disease in the middle ear . we are presenting a case history of a patient with advanced hodgkin 's disease , who had secondary involvement of his middle ear . to our knowledge this is the first case report of such clinical presentation where radiation therapy was of good help for bringing about symptomatic relief . possible routes of spread are discussed and the literature is reviewed . 
interferon-beta treatment of metastatic prostate cancer . a limited clinical trial of interferon-beta ( human fibroblast interferon ) in the treatment of advanced , hormone-refractory prostate cancer was conducted by the national prostate cancer project ( npcp protocol 2100 ) . sixteen patients with metastatic prostate cancer who had failed prior hormone therapy were entered into the study . treatment consisted of 6 x 10 ( 6 ) units of interferon-beta intravenously three times per week for 12 weeks . chills and fever were seen in ten of the 16 patients ( 62.5 % ) , and mild hematologic toxicity occurred in four patients . no complete or partial responses were observed . three patients had stable disease by npcp criteria for a mean duration of 6.3 months . progression of disease was seen in 13 of the 16 patients , eight of whom progressed during therapy . the results of this study suggest that interferon-beta has limited efficacy in the treatment of advanced , hormone-refractory prostate cancer . 
primary gastrointestinal lymphoma incidence , clinical presentation , and surgical approach . during a 5-year period , 15 cases of primary gastrointestinal lymphoma , corresponding to 14 % of the non-hodgkin 's lymphomas , were diagnosed in a population of 200 , 000. most patients had a short duration of symptoms--less than 3 months--and a clinical picture dominated by abdominal pain . all patients were laparotomized and six patients presented with an acute abdomen and were subjected to emergency operations . in seven cases , gastrointestinal malignancy was not suspected preoperatively . the patients were treated with a combination of surgery , cytostatic therapy , and / or radiotherapy . cases with localized disease had a favorable prognosis , seven of nine patients being alive 31 to 70 months after diagnosis . a statistically significant difference in median survival was also noted between patients with lymphomas of low-grade and high-grade malignancy ( 70+ vs . 10.5 months ) . 
gallbladder adenocarcinoma : prognostic significance of tumor acid mucopolysaccharide content . the gall bladder mucosa is composed of neutral mucopolysaccharide and protein radical containing secretory cells , protein radical containing migratory cells , and neutral and acid mucopolysaccharides plus sialic acid containing goblet cells . the prognostic significance of histologic or histochemical parameters in gall bladder adenocarcinoma ( gba ) are unknown . to determine if histochemical acid mucopolysaccharide content in gba has prognostic value , gba histologic sections from 26 advanced stage disease patients participating in eastern cooperative oncology group ( ecog ) treatment study est-2273 were stained with alcian blue at ph . 1.0 , assessed by a pathology panel for either high ( greater than 50 % ) or low ( less than 50 % ) acid mucopolysaccharide content , and correlated with patient survival . initial panel unanimous concurrence rate on acid mucopolysaccharide content was 88.9 % . median survival times from the start of chemotherapy to date of death for high acid mucopolysaccharide content gba was 14 weeks versus five weeks for the low content gba ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the results indicate that high acid mucopolysaccharide content in gba significantly improves prognosis . ecog recommends stratification by acid mucopolysaccharide content in future gba treatment investigations . 
symptomatic granular cell tumor of the esophagus . a case of symptomatic granular cell tumor of the esophagus is described . another 32 cases collected from the english literature are analyzed . the reported cases have occurred mostly in women of less than 50 years of age presenting with dysphagia . excision of the lesion is curative . 
one-stage plastic reconstruction of a totally amputated cancerous penis using a unilateral myocutaneous gracilis flap . a 36-year-old saudi underwent a total penectomy for cancer involving the penile shaft with no corporeal invasion or distant metastases . one year postoperatively and in the absence of tumor recurrence or metastasis , a penile reconstruction using a right myocutaneous gracilis flap was performed . the result two years later was satisfactory , with preservation of deep penile sensation and successful weekly sexual intercourse . to our knowledge , no similar case has been reported previously . 
postchemotherapy esophagitis : the endoscopic diagnosis and its impact on survival . eighteen cancer patients receiving intensive chemotherapy developed leukopenia , fever , dysphagia , and oropharyngeal soreness . superficial esophageal ulceration suggestive of esophagitis was demonstrated by radiographic examination in 33 % of the patients ( 5 / 15 ) . upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed superficial ulceration and white mucosal patches in all patients . there was no morbidity associated with the endoscopic procedures . sixty-one percent of the patients ( 11 / 18 ) had monilia albicans cultured from the oropharyngeal cavity , and 50 % ( 9 / 18 ) had monilia cultured from the esophageal lesions . the evolution of the esophagitis correlated well with the survival of the patients . the monilial esophagitis persisted in six patients who all died within 24 days of systemic moniliasis . after initial improvement five additional patients succumbed ; three of them from severe fungal infection . there was resolution of the esophagitis in the remaining seven patients who survived longer . however , two of them had recurrent monilial esophagitis and succumbed to systemic candidiasis . the other five have remained free of esophagitis , their underlying malignancies have remained under control , and so far they have survived an average of one and a half years . endoscopy is more accurate than radiography in detecting postchemotherapy esophagitis . this complication can be fatal , since it is often followed by systemic candidiasis . 
kaposi 's sarcoma : report of five cases treated with radiotherapy . five patients with kaposi 's sarcoma seen and treated at the louisiana state university medical center in shreveport from 1970 to 1984 are presented . a complete response was observed in two patients who received extended-field irradiation . results obtained with external beam radiotherapy for this disease from other reported patients series are summarized . 
primary teratocarcinoma of the lung . presented is the ninth reported case of teratocarcinoma arising from the parenchyma of the lung . treatment should include wide surgical resection and adjuvant chemotherapy . postoperative radiation therapy should be utilized if there is residual disease or nodal metastasis . preoperative radiation therapy should be considered if there is evidence of chest wall involvement . 
villous tumors of the duodenum and ampulla of vater . polypoid epithelial tumors of the duodenum and ampulla of vater are rarely diagnosed preoperatively without wide application of fiberoptic endoscopy . the symptoms are nonspecific . only a high index of suspicion will lead to early diagnosis . life-threatening complications and increased incidence of malignant transformations are associated with delayed diagnosis . this paper reviews 11 patients ( nine previously unreported ) with villous tumor of the ampulla of vater and two with this neoplasm in the duodenum . it also reviews the important principles of management illustrated by the behavior of the tumors of these 11 patients compared to those of previous reports . for favorable results , all lesions must be excised in toto and evidence of invasive malignancy must lead to aggressive treatment whenever feasible . 
proposed method to study the factors affecting local control with combined external beam and interstitial implantation of mobile tongue and floor of mouth . twenty-seven patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the mobile tongue and floor of the mouth were treated with external beam and interstitial radiation . good prognostic factors were t1n0 , t2n0 , superficial tumors , tumor shrinkage by 75 % with external beam , and no apparent tumor clinically 2 months after treatment . on the other hand , t3n0 , t1-3n1 , and deeply necrotic tumors had a poor prognosis . we recommend using a flexible afterloading system to implant the initial local tumor volume ( not just the residual nidus ) that does not exceed 45 cm3 . the minimum ( reference ) dose was prescribed to a surface 1 / 2 cm beyond the most peripheral rim of radioactive sources . for acceptable local control and complication rates , our suggested minimum ( reference ) doses are less than or equal to 7 , 500 rads for t1 ( or a time-dose-fractionation [ tdf ] of 131-140 ) , less than or equal to 8 , 000 rads for t2 ( tdf of 131-140 ) , and probably less than 8 , 500 rads for t3 ( tdf of less than or equal to 150 ) . these guidelines should be considered preliminary . 
a new technique for repair of aortic coarctation . subclavian flap aortoplasty with preservation of arterial blood flow to the left arm . from february 1984 to march 1986 , 28 patients underwent a new technique of coarctation repair . this technique consists of a complete mobilization of the left subclavian artery extended to the origin of its first branches . the aorta need not be extensively mobilized and the intercostal arteries are individually controlled with snares . after all the proper clamping , the left subclavian artery is detached from the aorta at its origin and is opened longitudinally on its posterior aspect . the anterior wall of the aorta is then incised , beginning with the opening at the origin of the left subclavian artery and extending distally to the descending aorta 12 to 15 mm past the coarctation . the coarctation membrane is excised and the ductus is ligated and divided . the opened left subclavian artery , now forming a flap , is pulled down and sutured to the edges of the aorta , widening the coarctation site and also preserving the blood flow to the left arm . the ages of the patients ranged from 2 months to 25 years ( mean 4.24 + / - 4.9 years ) and their weights ranged from 2.8 to 52 kg ( mean : 14.8 + / - 10.0 kg ) . there were no hospital deaths and the mean follow-up was 9.6 months ( + / - 4.9 months ) . recatheterization of four patients from 4 to 12 months postoperatively showed adequate correction and strongly suggested normal growth of the aorta at the site of coarctation , as well as preservation of the blood flow through the left subclavian artery . doppler measurements showed normal flow to the left arm and no gradients through the isthmic area . our experience indicates that this technique is not only feasible but is the procedure of choice in most cases of discrete isthmic coarctation and in some cases of long narrowing of the isthmus in patients with a wide range of ages and weights . 
aspirin anticoagulation in children with mechanical aortic valves . the optimal method of anticoagulation in children with mechanical heart valves is controversial . between 1975 and 1986 , aspirin or aspirin with dipyridamole has been used for anticoagulation in children receiving a mechanical aortic valve at the university of california , san francisco . fifty-one patients ( ages 1 to 23 years , mean 12.9 years ) were treated with aspirin ( n = 45 ) or aspirin with dipyridamole ( n = 6 ) and observed a mean of 36.5 months ( range 3 to 100 months ) . there were four late deaths : two from endocarditis and two from other medical problems , but none related to thrombosis or embolus . follow-up was accomplished by direct contact with the patient , parent , or referring physician . two patients ( 3.9 % ) were lost to late follow-up . one minor neurologic event occurred perioperatively and resolved spontaneously . there were no postoperative thromboembolic events . eleven asymptomatic children were recently studied by magnetic resonance imaging or computed axial tomography of the brain and had no evidence of prior silent cerebral thromboembolic defects . there were four patients ( 5.9 % ) who had minor hemorrhagic complications : three patients had nosebleeds and one patient had an upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage . five patients were changed to warfarin anticoagulation : the patient with upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage and four older patients because of physician preference , all after uncomplicated aspirin therapy . there were no mechanical valve failures , although one patient required reoperation 9 months later for perivalvular leak . all children have remained in normal sinus or paced rhythm during follow-up . these results show that children with mechanical aortic valves in normal sinus rhythm can be safely treated with aspirin ( or aspirin with dipyridamole ) with little risk of thromboembolic events , valve thrombosis , or valve failure . hemorrhagic complications resulting from aspirin are minor and easily treated . 
extending the limits for modified fontan procedures . during the early development of atriopulmonary anastomotic operations ( fontan-kreutzer ) , a number of physiologic and anatomical limits were proposed by the fontan group as selection criteria . among 167 consecutive patients undergoing modified fontan procedures from 1973 through 1985 , 109 ( 65 % ) patients exceeded one or more of the original selection criteria in areas of age , anomalies of systemic or pulmonary venous connection , pulmonary artery distortion , and pulmonary artery pressure . twenty-six patients had a mean pulmonary artery pressure greater than 15 mm hg , with 16 operative survivors ( 62 % ) . nineteen patients had anomalies of systemic and / or pulmonary venous connection , and 16 survived ( 84 % ) . there were 44 patients under the age of 4 years , and 26 survived ( 59 % ) . twenty-five patients were older than 15 years , and 23 ( 92 % ) survived the fontan procedure . pulmonary artery distortion , relating to prior palliative operations , was found in 34 patients . seventeen of these 34 survived a modified fontan procedure ( 50 % ) . twenty-six patients had a pulmonary arteriolar resistance more than 2 wood units times square meter , and 14 survived ( 54 % ) , whereas 81 of 93 with a pulmonary arteriolar resistance of less than 2 u x m2 survived ( 87 % ) . multivariate analysis showed that pulmonary arteriolar resistance and pulmonary artery distortion had a significant , negative impact on survival , but age and anomalies of systemic and / or pulmonary venous connection did not . pulmonary artery pressure was not an independent predictor of outcome . the results show that the original criteria may be exceeded in the areas of age and anomalies of pulmonary or systemic venous connection . pulmonary artery pressure alone should not contraindicate a fontan procedure if pulmonary arteriolar resistance is low . pulmonary artery distortion from a prior palliative operation and elevated pulmonary arteriolar resistance increase the risk of a fontan procedure . 
comparison of atriopulmonary versus atrioventricular connections for modified fontan / kreutzer repair of tricuspid valve atresia . this study compares the clinical results of two basic variations of the modified fontan / kreutzer operation , direct atriopulmonary connection without an interposed valve versus atrioventricular connection using the native pulmonary valve and the potential pumping capability of the subpulmonary ventricular chamber . from january 1979 through june 1985 , 84 patients with tricuspid atresia and ventriculoarterial concordance underwent the modified fontan / kreutzer operation at the mayo clinic . sixty patients had atriopulmonary connection and 24 patients had atrioventricular connections . preoperative characteristics of the two patient groups were similar , but there was a greater frequency of waterston shunts in the atriopulmonary group ( 38 % versus 17 % ) and greater frequency of glenn shunts in the atrioventricular group ( 46 % versus 15 % ) . mean pulmonary arteriolar resistance was 1.9 + / - 0.7 units in the atriopulmonary group and 1.1 + / - 0.8 units in the atrioventricular group ( p less than 0.01 ) . early postoperatively , mean right atrial pressure was slightly higher in the atriopulmonary group than in the atrioventricular group ( 18 + / - 3 versus 16 + / - 3 mm hg , p less than 0.01 ) , but this difference was not reflected in the early or late results . operative mortality was 5 % for patients with atriopulmonary connections and 4 % for patients with atrioventricular connections . at 3.5 years postoperatively , the overall survival rate was 89 % + / - 4 % for patients with atriopulmonary connection and 88 % + / - 7 % for patients with atrioventricular connections . we conclude that there is no important difference in the clinical outcome of patients undergoing modified fontan / kreutzer repair for tricuspid atresia with atrioventricular concordance with either of the two operative methods . the choice of the connection should be dictated by the anatomy , such as presence of pulmonary valve or arterial stenoses , size of outlet chamber , and the presence of anomalous coronary arteries . 
the fontan operation . ventricular hypertrophy , age , and date of operation as risk factors . one hundred two patients , aged 0.7 to 38 years , with a wide variety of cardiac malformations underwent the fontan operation ( 1975 to april , 1985 ) . several different techniques were used . all but 17 had previously undergone one or more palliative operations . follow-up information was obtained in all patients . overall actuarial survival rate , with time zero being the time of the operation , was 63 % at 6 years with no deaths after that in patients followed as long as out to 9.4 years ; that for patients with tricuspid atresia was 81 % . the hazard function ( instantaneous risk ) for death was highest immediately after operation and merged after about 6 months with a constant hazard extending as long as the patients were followed . elevated post-repair right atrial pressure was correlated ( p = 0.002 ) with the probability of death in the early phase , with the risk rising rapidly with pressures above 14 mm hg . hypertrophy of the ventricular main chamber was a risk factor for death in both the early ( p = 0.007 ) and late ( p = 0.008 ) phases of hazard , which explained in part the lesser risk of the fontan operation in patients with tricuspid atresia . younger age , but not older age , was a risk factor for early postoperative death , but this risk was neutralized by recent date of operation . thus currently there is not a predicted increased risk associated with younger age at operation . in general , the fontan operation should be done at a young age ( 2 to 4 years ) to avoid increasing ventricular hypertrophy , but older age per se is not a contraindication to the operation . 
optimal perfusion flow rate for the brain during deep hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass at 20 degrees c . an experimental study . the relationship between the perfusion flow rate and cerebral oxygen consumption during deep hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass at 20 degrees c was investigated in dogs . in 10 dogs the perfusion flow rate was decreased in steps from 100 to 60 , 30 , and 15 ml / kg / min every 30 minutes . although cerebral blood flow decreased as perfusion flow rate decreased , the ratio of cerebral blood flow to the perfusion flow rate increased significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) at a perfusion flow rate of 15 ml / kg / min compared to that at a perfusion flow rate of 100 or 60 ml / kg / min . the arterial-sagittal sinus blood oxygen content difference increased as perfusion flow rate decreased . consequently , cerebral oxygen consumption did not vary significantly at perfusion flow rates of 100 ( 0.48 + / - 0.10 ) , 60 ( 0.43 + / - 0.14 ) , and 30 ml / kg / min ( 0.44 + / - 0.12 ml / 100 gm / min ) , and it decreased significantly to 0.31 + / - 0.22 ml / 100 gm / min at a perfusion flow rate of 15 ml / kg / min . in five dogs the perfusion flow rate was decreased in one step from 100 to 15 ml / kg / min , and after 60 minutes ' perfusion at a perfusion flow rate of 15 ml / kg / min , the perfusion flow rate was returned to 100 ml / kg / min . cerebral oxygen consumption decreased significantly during 60 minutes ' perfusion at a perfusion flow rate of 15 ml / kg / min and did not return to its initial value after the perfusion flow rate was returned to 100 ml / kg / min . these data indicate that the optimal perfusion flow rate for the brain during deep hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass at 20 degrees c appears to be 30 ml / kg / min , with a possible oxygen debt in the brain resulting in anaerobic metabolism if the perfusion flow rate is kept at 15 ml / kg / min or less . 
internal mammary artery grafting . clinical results , patency rates , and long-term survival in 833 patients . this report reviews 833 patients who underwent internal mammary artery grafting alone or with vein grafts between 1968 and 1981. use of the internal mammary artery was indicated in young or middle-aged patients with the following characteristics : a significant lesion of the proximal left anterior descending artery or its diagonal branch alone ( 70.1 % ) or combined with diffuse atherosclerosis ( 19.9 % ) or a small caliber ( 3.4 % ) ; absent or unsuitable veins for grafting ( 5.5 % ) ; atherosclerosis or an aneurysm of the ascending aorta ( 0.6 % ) ; and failure of previous vein grafts ( 0.5 % ) . the left anterior descending artery system was grafted by the left internal mammary artery in 53.2 % , and the arterial graft was complimented by vein grafts in 2.6 % . in 45.2 % of the patients , grafts of the left anterior descending artery by the left internal mammary artery were supplemented by vein grafts to the right coronary artery ( 23.8 % ) , to the circumflex artery ( 15.2 % ) , or to both ( 6.2 % ) . the overall operative mortality was 2.2 % . it rose to 16.7 % with associated cardiac procedures and to 18.5 % in patients who were in new york heart association class iv . if these two high-risk categories of patients are excluded , the perioperative death rate in the remaining 750 was only 0.4 % . of the 815 patients who survived the perioperative period ( mean 53.1 months follow-up ) , 63.1 % were relieved of angina and 83.4 % were in class i or ii of the new york heart association , as compared to 27.4 % before the operation . at cardiac recatheterization ( mean 18.9 months ) , 87.9 % of the internal mammary artery grafts and 63.3 % of the vein grafts were patent ( p less than 0.05 ) . the cumulative actuarial 10 year survival rate was 88.6 % + / - 1.3 % . 
the potential of magnetic resonance imaging for the evaluation of thoracic arterial diseases . fifty-three patients with a variety of thoracic aortic or pulmonary arterial diseases were evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging to determine the potential of this new technique for the diagnosis of thoracic vascular disease . direct visualization of the atherosclerotic plaques and demonstration of their precise location and extent was achieved by magnetic resonance imaging . the size and extent of the aneurysms and the presence of mural thrombus were demonstrated by magnetic resonance imaging . magnetic resonance imaging identified the intimal flap and indicated the proximal extent of thoracic aortic dissection . magnetic resonance imaging permitted direct visualization of thrombi and aneurysm of the pulmonary arteries . in conclusion , magnetic resonance imaging appears to be a totally noninvasive and reliable technique for demonstration of various pathologic processes involving the thoracic aorta and pulmonary arteries . vascular imaging is achieved without the need for contrast media . 
aortic atresia and aortico-left ventricular tunnel : successful surgical management by konno aortoventriculoplasty in a neonate . a newborn infant with aortic atresia and aortico-left ventricular tunnel was successfully treated by konno aortoventriculoplasty . a 15 mm ionescu-shiley pericardial xenograft was inserted when the patient was 5 days old and it was replaced with a 19 mm st . jude medical prosthesis at 2 years of age . 
direct internal mammary-vertebral artery anastomosis : an 18-year follow-up . 
internal mammary artery graft [ letter ] 
yellow nail syndrome [ letter ] 
intraoperative coronary angioscopy . technique and results in the initial 58 patients . coronary angioscopy provides images of intravascular detail with greater than 0.2 mm spatial resolution and excellent contrast resolution . using endoscopes of 1.25 to 1.8 mm outer diameter , we performed intraoperative angioscopy of the coronary arteries or saphenous vein grafts , or both , in 58 patients . eighty-one native coronary arteries and 43 vein grafts were examined . a clear viewing field was created by infusion of crystalloid cardioplegic solution through the aortic root during cardiopulmonary bypass . technical details crucial for obtaining high-quality images were as follows : sufficient coronary perfusion by cardioplegic solution to displace all blood ; adequate intraluminal illumination ; and high-quality fiberoptic and lens systems . incomplete studies in approximately 14 % of patients were related to failure to achieve these technical details and lack of scope steerability . in 30 % of patients , previously unrecognized anatomic details were revealed by angioscopy . these included intimal flaps at the site of vein-to-artery anastomoses , atheromatous plaques with adherent thrombi , and hemorrhagic ulcerated plaques , not recognized on angiography . although a coronary intimal flap developed proximal to the anastomosis during retrograde examination in two patients , no serious complications occurred as a result of the procedure . we conclude that intraoperative angioscopy is safe , provides novel information that may be clinically relevant , and has future potential for development of the techniques for coronary endarterectomy and intraoperative balloon and laser angioplasty . 
the thoracic surgical spectrum of acquired immune deficiency syndrome . the acquired immune deficiency syndrome has presented a complex and , as yet , unsolvable spectrum of pulmonary disease characterized by bizarre infections , pneumothoraces , respiratory distress , and death . thirty-eight patients underwent 49 surgical procedures during 42 months . ages of the patients ranged from 24 to 56 years . surgical procedures included tracheostomy , closure of air leaks , mediastinoscopy , lobectomy , open lung biopsy , and esophagogastrectomy . hospital mortality was 10 of 38 ( 24 % ) ; the 1 year survival rate was 13 of 38 ( 34 % ) . pulmonary infections included pneumocystis carinii , cytomegalovirus , microbacterium avium , toxoplasmosis , candidiasis , and cryptococcus neoformans . open lung biopsy and surgical closure of air leaks can be accomplished safely with low morbidity . tracheostomy and ventilatory support should be avoided at present in the majority of patients with this syndrome , as the mortality has been 100 % when that stage of the disease is reached . 
acute injuries of the diaphragm . an analysis of 165 cases . the records of 165 patients with diaphragmatic injuries seen at detroit receiving hospital from july 1980 through june 1985 were reviewed . causes included gunshot wounds in 89 patients , stab wounds in 65 , and blunt trauma in 11. mortality rates were 18 % , 5 % , and 27 % , respectively , deaths being caused primarily by bleeding from associated injuries . operations on these patients included laparotomy in 123 ( 75 % ) , thoracotomy in four ( 2 % ) , and both in 38 ( 23 % ) . the mortality rates for these operations were 0 % , 50 % , and 53 % , respectively . a presumptive preoperative diagnosis of diaphragmatic injury from chest x-ray findings was possible in only 24 ( 15 % ) patients . of 42 thoracotomies , five were performed in the emergency department for cardiac arrest , with three ( 60 % ) deaths . of 37 thoracotomies performed in the operating room , 17 were for thoracic injuries with six ( 35 % ) deaths and 20 were for resuscitation for abdominal injuries with 13 ( 65 % ) deaths . in most patients , the diaphragmatic injury was critical only in warning the surgeon that severe injuries might be present in both the chest and abdomen . of 43 patients admitted with a blood pressure of less than 70 mm hg or four or more associated injuries , 22 died . however , even in these high-risk patients , if resuscitation raised the initial operating room blood pressure to more than 70 mm hg , reduced the shock time to less than 30 minutes , and kept blood loss below 10 units , the mortality was only 8 % ( 1 / 12 ) . in contrast , if none of these conditions could be met , the mortality in this high-risk group was 100 % ( 16 / 16 ) . thus more aggressive resuscitative efforts and earlier control of bleeding seem to provide the best chance for improved survival . 
update on diagnostic techniques . 
diagnosis of myocarditis by endomyocardial biopsy . endomyocardial biopsy is most frequently used to establish a definitive diagnosis of myocarditis , especially since this disorder has been treated with immunosuppressive therapy . recent diagnostic criteria ( the " dallas classification " ) are reviewed , and pitfalls and limitations are discussed . 
clinician 's approach to echocardiography . today , echocardiography enjoys a prominent place in the physician 's diagnostic armamentarium . its safe application , accuracy , and reproducibility have made its widespread use popular . the ability of echocardiography to visualize cardiac valves , intracardiac masses , and ventricular wall motion is unique . this article highlights the applications of echocardiography from the physician 's vantage point . 
digital subtraction angiography . digital subtraction angiography is a new imaging technique that uses a computer to subtract background distractions and to enhance contrast and density . the intravenous administration of contrast material permits safe outpatient screening for arterial disease . the exact role of intravenous digital subtraction angiography in cerebrovascular disease is still in evolution and remains the subject of debate . the value of intravenous digital subtraction angiography in screening for renovascular hypertension is less controversial , but selection of patients remains a subject for further study . intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography has become a standard imaging technique that offers both the inherent safety produced by reduction of the volume of contrast material and the added safety afforded by reduction of both the size of the catheter and the time required to perform complex arterial interventional procedures . with the evolution of more sophisticated computed technology and radiographic equipment , the impact of both intravenous and arterial digital subtraction angiography will become even more dramatic . 
infective endocarditis : a challenging disease . enhanced clinical awareness of infective endocarditis , along with improved microbiologic methodology and more aggressive surgical intervention , has favorably influenced the outcome of the disease . the evolving nature of infective endocarditis over the past decade is described , as are the changing epidemiologic factors , microbiologic techniques , and echocardiographic contributions in the clinical management of patients with infective endocarditis . 
treatment of acute deep venous thrombosis with fibrinolytic agents . both heparin and fibrinolytic agents carry a risk of bleeding . because of their beneficial effects in restoring vessel patency , we prefer the use of fibrinolytic agents in patients with acute deep vein thrombosis unless there is some specific contraindication . with the treatment regimen we have outlined , the risk of bleeding is extremely low . we have found that the long-term results achieved with streptokinase therapy are excellent , and normal venous hemodynamics can be restored quickly and effectively . 
clinical value of electrodiagnostic studies in neuromuscular disorders . emg and conduction studies provide the physician with a precise means of defining the multiple diseases affecting the peripheral motor-sensory unit . these studies frequently provide clues that may be useful in arriving at the appropriate therapeutic decisions and in determining prognosis . normal results may also support a suspected clinical diagnosis of inorganic illness , providing no evidence of central nervous system disease can be defined . like any other test , however , results of emg may be false-negative in bona fide neuromuscular disorders . this is particularly true early in a disease process ; in neuropathies restricted primarily to small , unmyelinated nerve fibers ; and in certain of the less virulent diseases of muscle and muscle energy metabolism . 
transient global amnesia and the amnestic syndrome . transient global amnesia is an unusual form of the amnestic syndrome in that it is completely reversible in most patients . the etiology of transient global amnesia is poorly understood , although involvement of the medial temporal lobe is most likely . the literature suggests that once an underlying structural lesion has been ruled out , cases can be divided into three groups : patients with a past history of migraine headaches , those who have no obvious underlying precipitating factors , and those with associated neurologic deficits during a spell and risk factors for cerebrovascular disease . patients in the first group tend to have attacks at an earlier age and to have an increased recurrence rate but , like those in the second group , have a good prognosis . patients in the third group often have onset later in life , and as many as 10 % may have a stroke or dementia . whether or not this is a higher incidence than should be expected in persons of this age group has not been determined . although sophisticated testing may show persistence of the memory defect , most patients eventually recover completely . 
angiofibroma : treatment trends in 150 patients during 40 years . a series of 150 patients with histologically confirmed angiofibroma examined from 1945 through 1983 was studied to contrast treatment methods and surgical approaches . from 1945 to 1955 , treatment consisted primarily of radiation . from 1955 through 1971 , the primary method of treatment was surgical removal ; the lateral rhinotomy approach was used to expose the tumor and its extensions in most cases . from 1971 through 1983 , all tumors were removed surgically . trends in diagnosis , treatment , and adjunctive therapy at a single institution were evaluated . specifically , the trends considered were operative approaches , blood replacement with and without hypotensive anesthesia , adjunctive measures such as hormonal therapy or tumor embolization , mortality , and morbidity . lateral rhinotomy provides wide exposure of and access to the nose , nasopharynx , paranasal sinuses , elements of the skull base , temporal fossa , and infratemporal fossa . surgical treatment , specifically the lateral rhinotomy approach and its extensions , is recommended as the best method of managing angiofibroma in most patients . 
choanal atresia : clinical features , surgical approach , and long-term follow-up . twenty-one patients with choanal atresia were treated from 1969 to 1985. follow-up of 1 1 / 2 to 15 years postoperatively has been obtained in 17 patients . thirteen patients had bilateral atresia and eight had unilateral atresia . all 13 patients with bilateral atresia were operated on within the first month of life . eighteen patients were treated transnasally and two transpalatally . ten of 15 patients treated by transnasal puncture and dilation followed by stenting of the choanae are patent after a single procedure . five other patients , all of whom had other associated anomalies , required secondary dilations or transpalatal repair . our results support the effectiveness of transnasal puncture and dilatation followed by stenting of the choanae as the initial surgical procedure of choice . it may be used safely in the neonate , and is often definitive . 
obstructive sleep apnea in down syndrome children : a surgical approach . obstructive sleep apnea is considered in five down syndrome children . all had altered anatomy consistent with this syndrome involving the oropharynx , cranium , and midface . based on earlier work , it was established that , except for specific isolated instances , routine tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy would not reverse obstructive respiratory patterns in this patient population . a modified pharyngopalatal surgical approach has been successful in alleviating upper airway sleep obstruction in down syndrome . 
magnetic resonance imaging of the fetal temporal bone . magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) is a powerful new tool for the study of human anatomy and pathology . by various mri techniques , the structure of the middle and inner ears of aborted 20-week fetuses is defined and compared to gross anatomic sections . mri 's potential for evaluating temporal bone development and diseases of the ear is discussed . 
plastic bronchitis . plastic bronchitis is an uncommon disease of children characterized by the formation of long , branching bronchial casts . of three children with such bronchial casts , one developed status asthmaticus and coughed out a complete cast of the tracheobronchial tree . one other child also had a course of desensitization for allergies . two children presented with what was originally thought to be pneumonitis , but when chest x-rays were taken , one child was suspected of having an inhaled foreign body , and the other had complete opacification of one lung . when these two children were examined bronchoscopically the tracheobronchial tree was found to be filled with white , cheesy material . this material was extremely hard to remove bronchoscopically as the material was too soft to grab with forceps but too thick to suction . the material extended all the way down into the tertiary bronchi , and in one child multiple bronchoscopies were necessary to remove this material , and even so he developed bronchiectasis . the pathologic examination of these casts showed layers of inspissated mucus and inflammatory cells . 
urogenital tract carcinoma metastatic to the head and neck . a 9-year review of our experience with head and neck metastases from 845 urogenital tract tumors of the kidney , prostate , bladder , testicle , spermatic cord , penis , urethra , and ureter was performed . thirty-one ( 3.7 % ) of these tumors developed metastases to the cervical and supraclavicular lymph nodes , scalp , thyroid gland , thyroid cartilage , parotid gland , retroorbit , mandible , nasal cavity , and paranasal sinuses . unusual cases and a review of the literature are presented . the frequency of such metastases to the head and neck from various primaries , diagnostic application of current immunohistochemical methodology , and therapeutic alternatives are emphasized . 
correlation of fine needle aspiration biopsy and ct scanning of parotid masses . preoperative evaluation of parotid tumors still poses difficult problems for the head and neck surgeon . the complex anatomy of the parotid space leads to difficulty in localizing these tumors . in addition , physical examination will rarely determine whether a parotid lesion is benign or malignant . high resolution ct scanning with contrast and fine needle aspiration can provide enough preoperative information to enable the surgeon to counsel his patient concerning possible risks and the extent of surgery that may be indicated . we are able to determine tumor location , multiple or bilateral masses , associated adenopathy , and often specific tumor histology . forty-two parotid aspirates and 26 ct scans were reviewed and correlated with their postoperative pathology specimen . parotid aspiration cytology was found to be a highly accurate and safe procedure for preoperative determination of parotid pathology . however , the ct scan was specific only in defining the anatomic localization and extent of a parotid mass . 
effects of tympanic membrane scars on tympanometry : a study in cats . the efficacy of tympanometry in the diagnosis of ossicular abnormalities and the differentiation of such from eardrum scarring is controversial . this paper presents a study of the tympanometric effects of specific eardrum scars and ossicular abnormalities in cats . for both normal eardrums and healed myringotomies , a normal middle ear could be differentiated from stapes fixation or incudostapedial discontinuity using static immittance parameters and tympanogram morphology . twenty percent myringectomy scars caused abnormal 660 hz tympanograms but this effect could be distinguished from changes caused by a concomitant ossicular abnormality . the very low impedance of a 50 % myringectomy scar resulted in tympanograms which could not be differentiated from an ossicular discontinuity alone . with this neomembrane , stapes fixation could not even be differentiated from an ossicular discontinuity . this study supports the view that tympanometry should be interpreted as part of a battery of tests which includes otoscopy , audiometry , and acoustic reflex measurements . 
angiosarcoma of the head and neck : review of 11 cases . in this report , 11 cases of angiosarcoma of the head and neck are reviewed . the patients ranged in age from newborn to 78 years ; mean age was 64 years . there were eight men and three women . sites of involvement included the scalp and forehead , cheek , nose and ethmoid sinuses , neck , and mandible . surgery was the primary method of treatment . the 2-year survival rate was 50 % ( 5 / 10 ) and the 5-year survival rate was 22 % ( 2 / 9 ) . regional metastases were seen in 18 % ( 2 / 11 ) . we found that the tumors were poorly circumscribed and spread horizontally within the dermis for considerable distances , especially in the scalp . total surgical excision using frozen section control before reconstruction may offer the best chance for control of disease . 
comparison of the microbiology of recurrent tonsillitis between children and adults . the microbial flora of recurrently inflamed tonsils removed from 25 children with recurrent episodes of tonsillar pharyngitis were compared to flora of tonsils removed from 23 adults suffering from similar illness . more bacterial isolates per tonsil were recovered in adults ( 10.2 per tonsil ) than in children ( 8.4 per tonsil ) . the difference between these groups was due to a higher recovery rate in adults of bacteroides melaninogenicus group ( 1.6 isolates per adult , 0.8 per child ) and bacteroides fragilis group ( 0.4 per adult , 0.2 per child ) . conversely , group a beta-hemolytic streptococci were isolated in seven ( 28 % ) children as compared to their isolation in one ( 4 % ) adult . more isolates of beta-lactamase-producing organisms ( blpo ) per tonsil were recovered in adults . forty-three blpo were detected in 21 ( 91 % ) of the 23 tonsils removed from adults ( 1.9 isolates per patient ) as compared to 31 isolates in 16 ( 64 % ) of the 25 tonsils removed from children ( 1.2 isolates per patient ) ( p = 0.04 ) . these findings suggest that the etiology of recurrent tonsillitis in adults may differ from that in children . the differences in the tonsillar flora may be due to the effect of many more courses of antimicrobials given over the years to adults and the changes in tonsillar tissue that occur in this age group . 
methylene blue infusion for intraoperative identification of the parathyroid glands . identifying the parathyroid glands is of fundamental importance in thyroid and parathyroid surgery . we found that intravenous infusion of methylene blue was beneficial in intraoperative identification of the parathyroid glands in patients undergoing surgery for hyperparathyroidism as well as total and bilateral subtotal thyroidectomy . the technique is safe and easy to use , and it clearly reduces the operative time . we suggest that it be used routinely in thyroid and parathyroid surgery . 
effect of life in industrialized societies on hearing in natives of easter island . in an effort to determine whether life in industrialized societies can have an effect on hearing , 90 natives from easter island over 45 years old were evaluated . they underwent complete clinical and audiological assessment and were divided into groups according to those having lived only on the island or those having lived in modern civilization . with all factors being equal , except exposure to modern civilization , our results showed that living in civilized societies has a significant negative effect on hearing ; the severity is directly proportional to the years of exposure . the median hearing thresholds of natives always living on the island ( men and women combined ) was found to be similar to those of female citizens of the united states ; there was no significant difference in hearing thresholds between men and women among these natives . these results suggest that there are no significant inherent racial differences nor significant inherent differences between males and females in the sensitivity of hearing . a relationship between aging and hearing was noted and interpreted as true or intrinsic presbycusis . there were no cases of otosclerosis , meniere 's disease , or exostoses of the external ear canal among natives who had always lived on the island . pure natives were found not to be prone to otitis media in spite of having an extremely high incidence of severe upper respiratory tract allergies . 
frey 's syndrome : secondary to condylar fracture . frey 's syndrome , or gustatory sweating , is most commonly seen as a sequela of superficial parotidectomy . it can also be caused by other forms of trauma , including blunt trauma , but rarely does it occur without trauma . 
restoring abduction of paralyzed vocal cords in the cat using selective laryngeal reinnervation by phrenic motoneurons . the aim of this work was to reestablish the respiratory function of the paralyzed larynx through reinnervation of the posterior cricoarytenoid ( pca ) muscle by phrenic motoneurons . in nine adult cats the adductor branch of the recurrent laryngeal nerve ( rln ) of one side was cut and ligated , while the abductor branch was left intact . the whole rln was then transected lower in the neck and its distal stump anastomosed to the upper branch of the phrenic nerve . periodical laryngoscopies under ketamine anesthesia assessed that the inspiratory abduction of the paralyzed vocal cord recovered within 45 days to 60 days in all cats . abduction was caused by reinnervation of the pca muscle from phrenic motoneurons , as demonstrated by electrophysiological and anatomical ( retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase ) testings . 
sphenoid sinus mucocele masquerading as a skull base malignancy . mucoceles of the sphenoid sinus are rare . only occasional reports have appeared in the medical literature since they were first described by berg in 1889. the sphenoid sinus lies deep within the skull at the crossroads of 13 sensitive structures . the presence of a sphenoid sinus mucocele may be accompanied by a wide variety of signs and symptoms depending upon which of these structures are involved . the majority of these lesions are initially misdiagnosed as malignancies leading to increased patient morbidity and possible mismanagement . we present two cases of sphenoid sinus mucoceles which presented with a variety of neurological signs and symptoms . the radiographic findings were felt to be consistent with skull base malignancies . the diagnosis was corrected only after surgical exploration of the sphenoid sinus revealed a mucocele . 
the avitene pack : a new method to control epistaxis in a patient with poor platelet function . 
long-term stabilization in the incus interposition technique . 
a rule-based decision aid for managing transient ischemic attacks . 
caps : an office management program . 
medical software regulation : why now ? [ editorial ] 
mechanical contribution to lumbar stress injuries in female gymnasts . because female gymnasts as a group display higher than average incidences of stress-related pathologies of the lumbar spine , it was of interest to evaluate mechanical factors which are potential contributors . lumbar hyperextension and impact forces were quantified for performances of five commonly executed gymnastics skills by four competitive collegiate women gymnasts . the skills performed were the front walkover , the back walkover , and the front handspring , the back handspring , and the handspring vault . wielke 's ( 1983 ) radius method was used to quantify lumbar curvatures from film data during normal relaxed standing postures and during subject performances of the five selected skills . a force platform was used to monitor vertical and lateral ground reaction forces at the terminations of the respective skill performances . of the skills examined , the handspring vault produced the highest vertical and lateral impact forces , and the back handspring and back walkover required the greatest amounts of lumbar hyperextension . during the front and back walkovers and during the back handspring , maximum lumbar hyperextension occurred very close to the time that impact force was sustained by either the hands or the feet . 
optimal filtering of constant velocity torque data . the purpose of this investigation was to implement an optimal filtering strategy for processing in vivo dynamometric data . the validity of employing commonly accepted analog smoothing methods was also appraised . an inert gravitational model was used to assess the filtering requirements of two cybex ii constant velocity dynamometers at 10 pre-set speeds with three selected loads . speed settings were recorded as percentages of the servomechanism 's maximum tachometer feedback voltage ( 10 to 100 % vfb max ) . spectral analyses of unsmoothed torque and associated angular displacement curves , followed by optimized low-pass digital filtering , revealed the presence of two superimposed contaminating influences : a damped oscillation , representing successive sudden braking and releasing of the servomechanism control system ; a relatively stationary oscillatory series , which was attributed to the cybex motor . the optimal cutoff frequency for any data set was principally a positive function of % vfb max . this association was represented for each machine by a different , but reliable , third order least-squares polynomial , which could be used to accurately predict the correct smoothing required for any speed setting . unacceptable errors may be induced , especially when measuring peak torques , if data are inappropriately filtered . over-smoothing disguises inertial artefacts . the use of cybex recorder damping settings should be discouraged . optimal filtering is a minimal requirement of valid data processing . 
constant velocity dynamometer : an appraisal using mechanical loading . measurement characteristics of two constant velocity dynamometers ( cybex ii , lumex , inc . , ny ) were evaluated at 11 selected speeds ( 0 to 5 rad x s-1 ) under various conditions of inert gravitational loading . a linear accelerometer was affixed to the lever arm . speed settings were standardized percentages of each machine 's maximum tachometer feedback voltage ( 0 to 100 % vfb max ) . regression of cybex transducer-observed voltages ( v0 ) on true , i.e. , expected , torques ( me ) revealed that , for any static loading condition or angle , the measurement system was essentially linear and valid , although greater variance was evident for smaller torques . however , different calibrations , i.e. , regression lines , were required for different speed settings . the error in predicting me from v0 increased substantially with increased % vfb max . methodologies which assume constant velocity dynamic loading induce questionable , often invalid , results and inferences . dynamic v0 represents both gravitational and inertial components . considerable fluctuations in lever arm instantaneous velocity were ascribed to the combined influence of load and % vfb max upon the servomotor . after computing inertia-corrected me , calibration variability and prediction error were markedly reduced . unexplained variability may be due to poor proximity of the cybex transducer to the force application point . we concluded that : cybex ii should be calibrated only statically ; use of an optimal filter will avoid false estimates of joint torque ; inertial corrections must be applied in order to minimize potentially serious errors due to system angular acceleration ; and reported muscle function relationships might be usefully re-assessed in view of these findings . 
systematic ankle stabilization and the effect on performance . stabilization of the ankle joint is used as a deterrent to injury , however , insufficient or excessive ankle control can cause negative effects . this study determined the effects of systematic changes in ankle and subtalar joint stabilization on performance through an obstacle course . data were collected on six subjects as they completed two test procedures . ankle range of motion in the sagittal and frontal planes was determined using a modified inman apparatus . completion time through an obstacle course , set up on a basketball court , was used as a measure of performance . high-top basketball shoes were constructed with pockets which allowed strips of plastic ( stiffeners ) to be positioned just anterior and posterior to the medial and lateral malleoli . four shoe conditions were used including the shoe with no stiffeners . significant differences ( p less than 0.05 ) in eversion , flexion , and inversion were found between the shoe conditions . a general trend of decreased range of motion with increased restriction was observed . significant differences ( p less than 0.05 ) in performance were found between the shoe conditions , with a general trend of increased times with increased restriction . these results indicate that systematic changes in the range of motion of the ankle and subtalar joints can measurably affect performance . 
the effects of hydraulic resistance strength training in pre-pubertal males . in order to examine the effectiveness and safety of hydraulic resistance strength training in young males , 26 pre-pubertal males ( mean age = 8.2 + / - 1.3 yr ) completed a 14-wk strength training study . subjects were evaluated before and after the 14-wk experimental period for pubertal state ( tanner 's sexual maturity rating , serum testosterone , and serum dihydroepiandrosterone sulfate ) . effectiveness of the strength training program was determined by measuring pre-post differences in : isokinetic strength for flexion and extension at the knee and elbow joints at two speeds ( 30 degrees and 90 degrees x s-1 ) ( kin com , chattecx , inc . , chattanooga , tn ) , flexibility , standing long jump , vertical jump , body composition parameters , maximal oxygen consumption , and creatinine phosphokinase . safety of strength training was assessed by biphasic musculoskeletal scintigraphy before and after the program and by physician evaluation of complaints by subjects . strength training subjects ( n = 16 ) participated in a 45 min / session , 3 session / wk , 14-wk supervised strength training program with an attendance rate of 91.5 % . participants performed concentric work using hydraulic resistance equipment ( hydra-fitness industries , belton , tx ) . eccentric work was not performed . control subjects ( n = 10 ) did not strength train but did participate in sport activities and activities of daily living . results indicated that strength training subjects increased isokinetic strength as a result of strength training ( average concentric work / repetition increases by 18.5 to 36.6 % for the eight motions tested ; torque scores over the first 90 % of the range of motion increases by 13.1 to 45.1 % for the eight motions tested ) . these changes were significantly greater than changes seen in the control group ( p less than 0.05 ) . strength training subjects also demonstrated significant improvements ( as compared to control subjects ) in vertical jump ( +10.4 % ) , flexibility ( +8.4 % ) , and maximal oxygen consumption [ +19.4 % ( l x min-1 ) , +13.8 % ( ml x kg x min-1 ) ] after the experimental period . musculoskeletal scintigraphy revealed no evidence of damage to epiphyses , bone , or muscle as a result of strength training . only one strength training-related injury was reported ( left shoulder pain , 3 strength training sessions missed ) . in contrast , six strength training subjects sustained injuries during activities of daily living , resulting in 47 missed strength training sessions . it was concluded that , in the short term , supervised concentric strength training using hydraulic resistance equipment is safe and effective in pre-pubertal boys . 
aerobic performance in brothers , dizygotic and monozygotic twins . forty-two brothers , 66 dizygotic twins of both sexes and 106 monozygotic twins of both sexes , 16 to 34 yr of age , took part in this study that was designed to investigate the effect of heredity in aerobic performance . maximal oxygen uptake ( vo2 max ) , maximal heart rate ( hr max ) , maximal ventilation , and maximal oxygen pulse were obtained from a progressive ergocycle test to exhaustion . total work output in a 90-min maximal ergocycle test was also determined in the twins . fat-free weight was estimated from body density measurements obtained through underwater weighing . aerobic performance scores were adjusted for age ( brothers ) , and age and sex ( dizygotic and monozygotic twins ) by regression procedures . dizygotic twins and brothers of same sibship exhibited about the same level of resemblance for all variables or were only slightly different , with the exception of hr max . monozygotic pairs were generally more alike than the other sibs , as suggested by the intra-class coefficients . twin data were used to compute the genetic effects . the within-pair estimate of genetic variance revealed that it was significant ( p less than or equal to 0.05 ) for all variables except vo2 max x kg-1 fat-free weight x min-1 . in the case of hr max , the among-pairs component estimate had to be used , and it also proved significant ( p less than or equal to 0.01 ) . the size of the genetic effect was computed from three different methods , and it reached about 40 % for vo2 max x kg-1 x min-1 , 50 % for hr max , 60 % for maximal oxygen pulse and maximal ventilation , and 70 % for 90-min work output x kg-1 . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
accuracy of measured and predicted residual lung volume on body density measurement . the effects of measured and predicted residual lung volume on the accuracy of body density and percent fat ( % fat ) were investigated . adult fitness subjects ( n = 46 ) had residual lung volume measured with the oxygen dilution method while those from an athlete sample ( n = 134 ) utilized the nitrogen washout technique . residual lung volume was also predicted with gender-specific regression equations using height and age and from 24 % of vital capacity ( % fvc ) . residual lung volume alpha reliability for the average of four residual lung volume trials exceeded 0.90 ( sem less than = 161 ml ) for the oxygen dilution method and 0.99 ( sem = 30 ml ) for the average of two nitrogen washout measures . the standard errors for predicted residual lung volume were 579 and 355 ml , respectively , for the men and women in the adult sample and 288 ml for the trained athlete sample . estimating residual lung volume from % fvc yielded a see of 318 ml for the trained athlete sample . measured residual lung volume errors resulted in errors of 1.04 % fat , 0.87 % fat , and 0.21 % fat for the men , women , and trained athlete samples , respectively . in contrast , predicted residual lung volume measurement errors resulted in errors of 3.70 % fat , 2.85 % fat , and 1.98 % fat for the respective samples and 2.18 % fat when using % fvc with the trained athletes . measured residual lung volume introduces little % fat error while predicted residual lung volume introduces a substantial source of measurement error . 
chronic low level physical activity as a determinant of high density lipoprotein cholesterol and subfractions . physical activity has been associated with reduced risk of coronary heart disease . a mechanism for the reduced risk may be through increased high density lipoprotein cholesterol ( hdl-c ) and subfractions , in particular hdl2-c . research associated with increased physical activity investigating hld-c have assessed the effects of intense aerobic activity . the current research evaluated the relationship between low intensity , long duration activity to hdl-c and subfractions in 35 active postal carriers . measurements of physical activity via the large scale integrated monitor and reported miles walked , and lipoproteins were assessed at 3-month intervals over a 1-year period . reported miles walked / day ( 5.3 ) was significantly correlated with hld2-c ( r = 0.50 , p = 0.003 ) and approached significance for hdl-c ( r = 0.29 , p = 0.06 ) . the large scale integrated measures were correlated with hdl-c ( r = 0.44 , p = 0.008 ) and hdl2-c ( r = 0.44 , p = 0.007 ) . controlling for either age , alcohol consumption , body mass index , or leisure time activity did not reduce the relationship between reported miles walked or large scale integrated readings and hdl2-c , suggesting that the increased hdl-c was the result of long duration , low intensity physical activity . 
effects of exercise and carbohydrate composition on gastric emptying . to examine the gastric emptying characteristics of selected test drinks varying in carbohydrate composition and concentration , twenty-five runners ingested 400 ml of a solution in one or more of a series of trials followed by either 15 min seated rest or 15 min running ( 50 to 70 % vo2 max ) . the solutions tested at rest included water , 5.0 % maltodextrin , 3.0 % maltodextrin + 2 % glucose ( mg5.0 ) , and 4.5 % maltodextrin + 2.6 % fructose ( mf7.1 ) . solutions tested during running included water , mg5.0 , mf7.1 , 5.5 % maltodextrin + 2 % glucose , and 5.5 % maltodextrin + 2 % fructose . at rest and during running , water emptied significantly ( p less than 0.5 ) faster than all other drinks . in the running trials , the volume of gastric residue of 5.5 % maltodextrin + 2 % fructose ( 221.7 + / - 11.0 ml ) was significantly greater than water ( 103.4 + / - 19.0 ml ) , mg5.0 ( 153.3 + / - 16.8 ml ) , and mf7.1 ( 167.3 + / - 14.8 ) , suggesting an inhibitory role of glucose on gastric emptying . running resulted in a significantly lower volume of gastric residue of water , mg5.0 , and mf7.1 ( 103.4 + / - 19.0 , 153.3 + / - 16.8 , and 167.3 + / - 14.8 ml , respectively ) as compared to the corresponding drinks at rest ( 209.3 + / - 12.6 , 287.7 + / - 16.0 , and 271.0 + / - 17.8 ml , respectively ) . these results suggest a possible advantage for including maltodextrin and fructose as carbohydrate sources in athletic drinks . furthermore , the rate of gastric emptying is enhanced while running , possibly due to increased mechanical movement of fluid within the stomach . 
effects of exercise and anabolic steroids on total and lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations in male and female rats . forty male and 40 female rats were randomly assigned to 1 of 4 experimental groups . half of the animals of each gender were exercised by jumping ( weighted by a vest with up to 70 % body weight ) to a height of 16 cm 20 times x d-1 ( 30 s between jumps ) 5 d x wk-1 for 8 wk . half of the exercised animals and half of the sedentary animals were injected with the anabolic steroid durabolin ( 0.2 mg in 0.1 ml sesame seed oil ) 6 d x wk-1 for the last 3 wk of the 8-wk exercise program . the other animals were injected with 0.1 ml of sesame seed oil ( as a placebo ) on the same schedule . at the end of the 8-wk program , blood was drawn from the right atria of the anesthetized animals . plasmas were analyzed for total cholesterol ( tc ) and high density lipoprotein cholesterol ( hdl-c ) concentrations . low density lipoprotein cholesterol ( ldl-c ) concentration was estimated as the difference between these two parameters ( tc - hdl-c ) . a three-factor analysis of variance ( 2 x 2 x 2 ) demonstrated that there was a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) gender effect ( males greater than females ) , but no steroid or exercise main effects for tc . there were significant ( p less than 0.05 ) steroid and exercise main effects for both hdl-c and estimated ldl-c , as well as a significant gender main effect for estimated ldl-c ( but not hdl-c ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
heredity and muscle adaptation to endurance training . to determine whether sensitivity of muscle characteristics and aerobic performances to endurance training was genotype-dependent , 6 pairs of monozygotic ( mz ) twins , 21 + / - 4 yr of age ( mean + / - sd ) , took part in a 15-wk ergocycle endurance training program . tests were performed before and after 7 and 15 weeks of training . a biopsy of the vastus lateralis muscle was obtained for the determination of fiber type composition and activities of creatine kinase , hexokinase , phosphofructokinase , lactate dehydrogenase , malate dehydrogenase , 3-hydroxyacyl coa dehydrogenase , and oxoglutarate dehydrogenase . maximal oxygen uptake was measured with a progressive maximal ergocycle test , while endurance performance was determined as the total work output during a 90-min maximal ergocycle test . results indicated that maximal oxygen uptake x kg-1 and endurance performance x kg-1 increased significantly ( 14 and 31 % , respectively ) with training , and intra-pair resemblance ( intra-class ) in response to 15 wk of training ranged from 0.65 to 0.83 . hexokinase ( 31 % ) , phosphofructokinase ( 37 % ) , lactate dehydrogenase ( 21 % ) , malate dehydrogenase ( 31 % ) , and 3-hydroxyacyl coa dehydrogenase ( 60 % ) were significantly increased with training whereas no mean change in fiber-type proportions , oxoglutarate dehydrogenase and creatine kinase activities and the phosphofructokinase / oxoglutarate dehydrogenase ratio was observed . similarity within twin pairs in the response to enzyme activities was mainly detected in the second half of the training program . the present results confirm , therefore , that both maximal oxygen uptake and endurance performance responses to training are largely genotype-dependent . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
motor neuron excitability : the hoffmann reflex following exercise of low and high intensity . the current exercise literature lacks physiological evidence for a stress reduction induced by high intensity aerobic work . the purpose of this study was to investigate the effectiveness of high intensity aerobic work on stress reduction and to evaluate the currently tenable hypotheses in view of the data on the response to high intensity work . the subjects participated in a control trial and two 20-min treadmill exercise trials at low and high ( 40 % and 75 % vo2max ) intensity . the h- and m-wave responses to artificial stimulation of the tibial nerve ( angel and hofmann , 1963 ) were used to assess spinal cord activation level which constituted the major dependent variable in the study . low intensity exercise showed a 12.8 % reduction in the h max / m max ratio ( p less than 0.05 ) while high intensity exercise reduced the h max / m max ratio by 21.5 % ( p less than 0.0002 ) . the two exercise treatment levels were also significantly different from each other ( p less than 0.02 ) . these data provide objective evidence for the efficacy of high intensity exercise in stress reduction as measured by the hoffmann reflex and provide indirect evidence for a possible thermal hypothesis for exercise-induced stress reduction . 
measurements of the anaerobic work capacity in a group of highly trained runners [ letter ] 
rheumatoid vasculitis : survival and associated risk factors . we describe the clinical and laboratory characteristics of 52 patients with rheumatoid vasculitis whose condition was diagnosed at a tertiary care center between 1974 and 1981 , and we report their survival and the factors that were associated with decreased survival . the patients with rheumatoid vasculitis had decreased survival in comparison with an age- , sex- , and region-matched general population . their survival was also decreased in comparison to that of an incidence cohort of community patients with rheumatoid arthritis . in the latter cohort , decreased survival was confined to those patients with classic but not definite rheumatoid arthritis . after partial correction for referral bias , we found no difference in survival between the cohort with rheumatoid vasculitis and the cohort with classic rheumatoid arthritis . we found that the age at diagnosis of rheumatoid vasculitis , the therapeutic decisions before and at diagnosis , and the referral distance were the best predictors of survival . abnormal urinary sediment and hypergammaglobulinemia also predicted poor survival , but because of a lack of specificity in a small number of clinically abnormal values , we urge a cautious interpretation of their importance . 
brain abscess . a study of 45 consecutive cases . clinical features , findings of diagnostic studies , results of therapy , and prognostic factors were analyzed in 45 patients with brain abscesses . the number of patients diagnosed yearly has increased since ct scanning became available , but despite the enhanced sensitivity , the time from either onset of symptoms or hospital admission until initiation of therapy was not decreased and there was no dramatic effect upon morbidity or mortality in this series . infections of paranasal sinuses , ears , lungs , and odontogenic foci were predisposing factors in approximately 70 % of cases . single abscesses , present in 75 % of patients , were distributed equally in both hemispheres , with more than half in the frontal and parietal lobes . common signs and symptoms included headache , fever , chills , seizures , nausea , vomiting , altered sensorium , nuchal rigidity , and localizing neurologic signs . blood cultures were positive in 11 % . lumbar puncture rarely provided data from which a diagnosis could be established ; csf cultures were positive in only 7 % of patients , and there was a 15 % temporally associated incidence of brain herniation and death . diagnostic information was most readily obtained using imaging techniques such as ct and 99mtc scanning , and arteriography was invasive and of no added value . ct scans are however , often initially negative in patients presenting with clinical signs of meningitis presumably following rupture of an abscess into the subarachnoid space , and the average time for changes to appear on ct scan is 9 days . it is , therefore , recommended that when the clinical assessment suggests the possibility of brain abscess the patient be treated empirically with antibiotics and that lumbar puncture be performed only after thoughtful assessment of the risk-to-benefit ratio for each patient . causative organisms were isolated from more than 80 % of abscesses despite prior antibiotic treatment ; more than half grew a single pathogen , most commonly streptococci . anaerobic and microaerophilic bacteria accounted for 62 % of all isolates , and were the only organisms in 33 % of patients . computerized tomographic scans in 30 patients showed " ring-enhancing " lesions , nodular enhancement , or areas of low attenuation . complete resolution of abscesses on ct scans rarely occurred during hospitalization and took as long as 5 months . decrease in the size of abscesses on ct scan correlated well with clinical improvement and was seen within a week when abscesses were excised , but was often not obvious for 6 to 8 weeks if antibiotics were used alone . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) 
drugs for cardiac arrhythmias . 
buspirone : a non-benzodiazepine for anxiety . 
recombinant hepatitis b vaccine . 
transdermal estrogen . 
new preparations of vancomycin . 
treatment of hypothermia . 
lack of cold sensitivity in hyperkalemic periodic paralysis . the nosologic distinction between paramyotonia congenita and hyperkalemic periodic paralysis is somewhat blurred . muscle membrane inexcitability induced by cooling seems to be characteristic of paramyotonia congenita . the effect of cooling on the maximal compound muscle action potential ( cmap ) in patients with paramyotonia congenita was compared to that in patients with hyperkalemic periodic paralysis . diminution in cmap amplitude and area , which was observed in paramyotonia congenita , did not occur in hyperkalemic periodic paralysis . we suggest that this effect of cooling on the cmap can be utilized in the differentiation of these two syndromes . 
the exercise test in periodic paralysis . of 21 patients with clinically definite hypokalemic , hyperkalemic , or normokalemic periodic paralysis , 15 ( 71 % ) had a greater than normal increase in compound muscle action potential amplitude during 2-5 minutes of intermittent strong voluntary contraction of the muscle . this increase was followed by a progressive decline in amplitude , which was greater than in a control population and which was most rapid during the first 20 minutes after exercise . the amplitude often decreased to a level below the preexercise level . a similar response was seen in six of nine patients with periodic paralysis secondary to disorders such as thyrotoxicosis . this test may have value in the identification of patients with periodic paralysis . 
compressive neuropathy in childhood : a report of 14 cases . during a 6-year period , 14 of 898 patients examined at a pediatric electromyographic laboratory had a compressive mononeuropathy . these included five injuries to the peroneal nerve , four to the sciatic nerve , two to the distal radial nerve , and one each to the deep palmar branch of the ulnar nerve , the musculocutaneous nerve , and the long thoracic nerve . a potentially preventable mechanism was identified in 9 of the 14 patients , including prolonged posture in three of the four sciatic and two of the peroneal neuropathies . four other mononeuropathies were secondary to pressure from an orthopedic appliance or procedure ( one injury to the musculocutaneous nerve , one to the long thoracic nerve , two to the peroneal nerve ) . 
a quantitative comparison of satellite cell ultrastructure in duchenne muscular dystrophy , polymyositis , and normal controls . failure of the muscle to regenerate successfully is an important feature of the pathology of duchenne muscular dystrophy ( dmd ) . it is known that this is not due to a numerical reduction in the population of satellite cells . we have therefore examined the ultrastructural composition of the satellite cells in 25 dmd cases and compared them with satellite cells from normal subjects and from polymyositis patients to try to identify morphological features that might be associated with an impaired developmental competence . profiles of randomly and serially sectioned satellite cells were analyzed stereologically to obtain nuclear and cytoplasmic areas . within the cytoplasm , the areas occupied by mitochondria , rough endoplasmic reticulum ( rer ) , and golgi apparatus were measured . micropinocytotic vesicles ( mpvs ) at the periphery of the cells were counted . the nucleus to cytoplasm ratios and mitochondrial , rer , and golgi volume fractions were not significantly different in the three satellite cell samples . the cells in the dmd sample contained more mpvs than those in the normal subjects . this is attributed to a generalized cell response to a physiologically altered environment in the diseased muscle . 
improvement of screening in exertional myalgia with a standardized ischemic forearm test . an ischemic forearm test with simultaneous measurement of both lactate and ammonia can be used as a screening method for myoadenylate deaminase deficiency ( madd ) and for various glyco ( geno ) lytic defects . a standardized and a nonstandardized test have been compared in a group of 186 patients with exertional myalgia . standardization of the ischemic forearm test has led to greater yields of both lactate and ammonia in venous return blood of patients and controls . the sensitivity of the proposed test procedure in detecting madd patients was 100 % , whereas the specificity amounted to 98.8 % among exertional myalgia patients . 
sodium channel kinetics in normal and denervated rabbit muscle membrane . the effects of chronic denervation on sodium ( na ) channels in rabbit muscle membrane were determined using intracellular microelectrodes and vaseline gap voltage clamp techniques . the hodgkin-huxley model was used to describe the kinetic and steady-state parameters of channel activation and fast inactivation . chronic ( 7-10 days ) denervation was found to cause a decreased resting potential , lowered action potential peak , and fibrillation potentials in rabbit extensor digitorum longus ( edl ) muscles . under voltage clamp conditions , no differences were observed between denervated and normal fibers in the voltage dependence of the steady-state na channel activation and fast inactivation curves , or in the time course of development of fast inactivation . however , in denervated fibers , the time course of recovery from fast inactivation was approximately half that measured in normal fibers . also , whereas depolarizing holding potentials induced a long-term inactivation to varying degrees in normal edl fibers , denervated edl fibers and normal soleus fibers were uniformly resistant to prolonged depolarization . these results suggest that the denervation-induced development of spontaneous activity may be due in part to changes in the mechanisms that control the refractoriness of na channels . 
electrophysiologic denervation changes of human muscle fibers in motoneuron diseases . muscle denervation and reinnervation by sprouting of the surviving motoneurons characterizes motoneuron diseases ( mnd ) . in mammalian muscles , experimental denervation induces the appearance of extrajunctional acetylcholine ( ach ) receptors and tetrodotoxin ( ttx ) resistant action potentials ( ap ) . these denervation changes have been investigated in muscle biopsies from 10 mnd patients and in 2 traumatically denervated normal human muscles . extrajunctional ach sensitivity was present in 113 of the 140 ( 73 % ) fibers from mnd muscles studied . in 50 of 84 ( 70 % ) ach-sensitive fibers , no ttx-resistant ap were present . the remaining fibers ( 30 % ) showed small regenerative responses . in contrast , all the traumatically denervated muscle fibers showed extrajunctional ach sensitivity and ttx-resistant ap . histochemical analysis of the biopsies showed no direct correlation between the frequency of ach-sensitive fibers and that of the atrophic or normal-appearing fibers . the absence of ttx-resistant ap in ach-sensitive fibers and its lack of correlation with the histochemical criteria of denervation suggest the presence of a state of innervation in mmd , where the motoneuron is not able to maintain its fully trophic influence on the muscle fiber membrane . 
detection of nad+--malate dehydrogenase in human muscle . 
multiple mononeuropathy and hypereosinophilia [ letter ] 
motor amplitude measurement errors--foiled by a millimeter ruler . 
duchenne dystrophic muscle develops lesions in long-term coculture with mouse spinal cord . when strips of human skeletal muscle from biopsies of normal children and donors with duchenne muscular dystrophy ( dmd ) are explanted in organotypic coculture with fetal mouse spinal cord , many regenerating muscle fibers develop , become innervated , and maintain a remarkable degree of mature structure and function for more than 3-6 months in vitro . sequential light microscopy in correlation with electron-microscopic and electrophysiologic analyses showed that despite cross-species innervation , these human muscle fibers develop stable cross-striations , peripherally positioned myonuclei , and mature , functional motor endplates . of special interest is the onset of significant progressive abnormalities , e.g. , unusual focal myofibrillar lesions , in substantial numbers of innervated mature dmd muscle fibers after 2-4 months in culture . the focal myofibrillar lesions were not detected in normal muscle fibers maintained as long as 6 months in coculture , nor are they comparable to the generalized loss of cross-striations observed in muscle atrophy following in vitro denervation of mature dmd fibers . 
aaee minimonograph # 25 : single-fiber electromyography in myasthenia gravis . single-fiber electromyography ( sfemg ) demonstrates abnormal jitter in virtually all ( 99 % ) patients with myasthenia gravis ( mg ) . one muscle , the extensor digitorum communis , is abnormal in most patients with this disease , but to obtain the maximum diagnostic sensitivity , it may be necessary to examine other muscles , especially ones that are more involved clinically . there is no one muscle that will be more abnormal in every patient with mg . the muscle ( s ) to be tested must be selected based on the distribution of weakness in the individual patient . abnormal jitter is also seen in diseases of nerve and muscle ; these diseases must be excluded by other electrophysiologic and clinical examinations before diagnosing mg . if neuronal or myopathic disease is present , increased jitter does not indicate that mg is also present . however , if jitter is normal in a muscle with definite weakness , the weakness is not due to mg . when abnormal neuromuscular transmission has been demonstrated by repetitive nerve stimulation , the finding of abnormal jitter does not add to the diagnosis , though it may be useful in providing baseline values for comparison with the results of subsequent studies . sfemg is most valuable clinically in the patient with suspected mg in whom other tests of neuromuscular transmission and antiacetylcholine receptor antibody titers are normal . serial measurements of jitter can be useful in following the course of disease and in assessing the effect of treatment , but the results from these studies must always be interpreted in light of the overall clinical picture . 
the effect of aerobic exercise on serum creatine kinase activities . aerobic exercise is now a common form of recreational exercise among young women . in a previous study , more than a third of a group of young mothers volunteering blood samples to establish a creatine kinase ( ck ) reference range for duchenne muscular dystrophy ( dmd ) carrier detection regularly participated in aerobic exercise programs . aerobic exercise programs include eccentric exercises . as eccentric exercise is known to produce a delayed ck peak , this study was carried out to determine the effect of aerobic exercise on serum ck activities . the postexercise serum ck activity peak was monitored in 15 young women ( age range 20-23 years ) following aerobic exercise classes ( 45 minutes on 3 consecutive days ) . peak values at 24-48 hours following the last class ranged from 90 to 3473 u / liter , or 1.55 to 34.71 times resting values . it is concluded that aerobic exercise programs should be excluded in order to obtain accurate resting serum ck values for muscle disease diagnosis . 
aaee case report # 12 : common peroneal mononeuropathy at the fibular head . common peroneal mononeuropathies , usually located at the fibular head , are one of the many causes of foot-drop , a condition often evaluated in the electromyography laboratory . if appropriate nerve conduction studies are performed and particular muscles studied on needle myography , a satisfactory diagnosis can almost always be provided for what may be a perplexing problem clinically . with all peroneal mononeuropathies , the compound muscle action potential amplitude of the peroneal motor tibialis anterior nerve conduction studies , stimulating distal to the fibular head , is a semi-quantitative measure of the number of viable fibers supplying the tibialis anterior and allows for accurate prognostication regarding the foot-drop . 
thalidomide neuropathy : an electrophysiologic study . thalidomide is effective in the treatment of such disabling dermatologic diseases as aphthosis , discoid lupus erythematosus , and prurigo nodularis , in which other drugs fail . however , its use can induce neuropathy necessitating caution in its administration . it was found in this electrophysiologic study of 13 patients that the data best revealing neuropathy , even when clinical abnormalities were not apparent , were reduction of sensory nerve action potential amplitude on the sural nerve , increase of somatosensory evoked potential latency following sural nerve stimulation , and reduction of sensory action potential amplitude on stimulating the median nerve at the wrist . in two patients , electrophysiologic abnormalities had increased after withdrawal , suggesting a prolonged action of thalidomide . timely reduction of dosage , after detection of changes indicating the onset of side effects , could reduce the risk of the sometimes rapid emergence of clinical symptoms . 
acute cardiac events temporally related to cocaine abuse . the increasingly widespread use of cocaine in the united states has been accompanied and perhaps exacerbated by the misconception that the drug is not associated with serious medical complications . in particular , the potential for cocaine to precipitate life-threatening cardiac events needs to be reemphasized . we report the clinical and pathological findings in seven people in whom nonintravenous " recreational " use of cocaine was temporally related to acute myocardial infarction , ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation , myocarditis , sudden death , or a combination of these events . we also review data on 19 previously reported cases of cocaine-related cardiovascular disorders . analysis of all 26 patients indicated the following findings : the cardiac consequences of cocaine abuse are not unique to parenteral use of the drug , since nearly all the patients took the drug intranasally ; underlying heart disease is not a prerequisite for cocaine-related cardiac disorders ; seizure activity , a well-documented noncardiac complication of cocaine abuse , is neither a prerequisite for , nor an accompanying feature of , cardiac toxicity of cocaine ; and the cardiac consequences of cocaine are not limited to massive doses of the drug . although the pathogenesis of cardiac toxicity of cocaine remains incompletely defined , available circumstantial evidence suggests that cocaine has medical consequences that are equal in importance to its well-documented psychosocial consequences . 
case records of the massachusetts general hospital . weekly clinicopathological exercises . case 48-1986 . a 20-year-old cambodian immigrant with systemic lupus erythematosus and respiratory distress . 
competing technologies . implications for the costs and complexity of medical care [ published erratum appears in n engl j med 1987 may 14 ; 316 ( 20 ) : 1279 ] 
firearm-related deaths [ letter ] 
methylphenidate-induced cardiac arrhythmias [ letter ] 
drug therapy for graves ' disease during pregnancy [ letter ] 
thyroid hypofunction in premenstrual syndrome [ letter ] 
needle-stick transmission of human colonic adenocarcinoma [ letter ] 
differentiation of blast cells in acute nonlymphocytic leukemia [ letter ] 
status sternuens ( continual sneezing ) [ letter ] 
hematologic data in the case records [ letter ] 
selling surgery [ letter ] 
appendectomy and the risk of tubal infertility . we studied the importance of a history of appendectomy for appendicitis in 279 women with laparoscopically or surgically diagnosed tubal infertility and a control group of 957 fertile women . after controlling for the effects of age , use of an intrauterine device for contraception , a history of pelvic inflammatory disease , and other potential confounding variables , we found that no excess risk of tubal infertility was associated with a simple appendectomy without rupture . however , when the operation was reportedly for a ruptured appendix , the relative risk of tubal infertility was 4.8 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.5 to 14.9 ) for women who had never been pregnant and 3.2 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.1 to 9.6 ) for women with one or more previous pregnancies . we conclude that the early diagnosis and treatment of suspected appendicitis in girls and women of reproductive age may reduce the incidence of tubal infertility resulting from the sequelae of a ruptured appendix . 
eosinophiluria--a new method of detection and definition of the clinical spectrum . eosinophiluria is considered a useful marker of drug-induced acute interstitial nephritis . however , recognition of eosinophiluria by wright 's staining is technically difficult , and the spectrum of disorders causing eosinophiluria is not completely defined . we have adapted hansel 's stain for the examination of urinary sediment . whereas there was a variable uptake of wright 's stain by eosinophils in the urine , such eosinophils were readily recognized with hansel 's stain by the presence of bright red granules . the prevalence of eosinophiluria in acute interstitial nephritis was 10 of 11 patients , in acute tubular necrosis none of 30 , in acute pyelonephritis none of 10 , in acute cystitis 1 of 15 , in postinfectious glomerulonephritis 1 of 6 , in rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis 4 of 10 , and in acute prostatitis 6 of 10. eosinophiluria in acute interstitial nephritis was demonstrated by hansel 's stain in 10 of 11 patients but by wright 's stain in only 2 of 11 patients . we conclude that hansel 's stain substantially improves the recognition of eosinophiluria as compared with wright 's stain . eosinophiluria is useful in distinguishing acute interstitial nephritis from acute tubular necrosis . the clinical spectrum of eosinophiluria also includes rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis , acute prostatitis , and occasionally , acute cystitis or postinfectious glomerulonephritis . 
a prospective study of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate , mortality , and cardiovascular disease . it has been postulated that dehydroepiandrosterone ( dhea ) and its sulfate ester , dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate ( dheas ) , the major secretory products of the human adrenal gland , may be discriminators of life expectancy and aging . we examined the relation of base-line circulating dheas levels to subsequent 12-year mortality from any cause , from cardiovascular disease , and from ischemic heart disease in a population-based cohort of 242 men aged 50 to 79 years at the start of the study . mean dheas levels decreased with age and were also significantly lower in men with a history of heart disease than in those without such a history . in men with no history of heart disease at base line , the age-adjusted relative risk associated with a dheas level below 140 micrograms per deciliter was 1.5 ( p not significant ) for death from any causes , 3.3 ( p less than 0.05 ) for death from cardiovascular disease , and 3.2 ( p less than 0.05 ) for death from ischemic heart disease . in multivariate analyses , an increase in dheas level of 100 micrograms per deciliter was associated with a 36 percent reduction in mortality from any causes ( p less than 0.05 ) and a 48 percent reduction in mortality from cardiovascular disease ( p less than 0.05 ) , after adjustment for age , systolic blood pressure , serum cholesterol level , obesity , fasting plasma glucose level , cigarette smoking status , and personal history of heart disease . our conclusions are limited by the single determination of dheas levels , but the data suggest that the dheas concentration is independently and inversely related to death from any cause and death from cardiovascular disease in men over age 50. 
united states citizens studying medicine abroad . their backgrounds and test performance . to acquire information about the characteristics of u.s. citizens who had recently studied medicine abroad , the educational commission for foreign medical graduates ( ecfmg ) and the association of american medical colleges merged independently collected data on a study group of 10 , 460 u.s. citizens who attended 359 medical schools in 75 foreign countries and who took their first ecfmg examination between 1978 and 1982. the study group was markedly heterogeneous : 21 percent were not u.s. citizens at birth , 32 percent did not have english as a native language , and 12 percent had two or more years of undergraduate college education in puerto rico . sixty-seven percent resided in new york , new jersey , california , florida , or puerto rico , and 74 percent studied medicine in mexico or the caribbean . forty-six percent passed the ecfmg examination on their first attempt , and 22 percent passed a subsequent examination . only 45 percent had applied to a u.s. medical school , and 65 percent had taken the medical college admission test . the means of the college grade-point averages , known for 39 percent of the study group , and of the scores on the admission test , known for 65 percent , were lower than those of both accepted and unaccepted applicants to u.s. medical schools in the 1976 and 1978 entering classes . the finding that 55 percent of the study group did not apply to a u.s. medical school does not support the widely held belief that most , if not all , u.s. citizens who attend foreign medical schools do so only after several unsuccessful attempts to gain admission to a u.s. school . 
case records of the massachusetts general hospital . weekly clinicopathological exercises . case 49-1986 . a 41-year-old woman with atrial tachyarrhythmias and a continuous cardiac murmur . 
oral leukoplakia [ editorial ] 
the perforated appendix [ editorial ] 
vacuolar encephalopathy of aids [ letter ] 
transdermal estradiol [ letter ] 
father 's drinking ( and smoking ) and infant 's birth weight [ letter ] 
immunosuppressive factor ( or factors ) produced by human embryos in vitro [ letter ] 
" hypoxic " lap swimming--a cause of near-drowning [ letter ] 
amiodarone-induced gynecomastia [ letter ] 
dyssynchronous breathing during exercise in patients with chronic airflow obstruction [ letter ] 
hypodiploid hemopoietic precursors in myelodysplastic syndromes [ letter ] 
auscultatory percussion to detect ascites [ letter ] 
termination of early pregnancy by the progesterone antagonist ru 486 ( mifepristone ) . we studied the effects of the progesterone antagonist ru 486 in 100 women with early , unwanted pregnancy ( within 10 days of the expected onset of the missed menstrual period ) . thirty-four women received oral doses of 400 mg ( in four days ) , 26 received 600 mg ( in four days ) , and 40 received 800 mg ( in two days ) . uterine bleeding occurred in all patients within four days of the first dose and continued for 5 to 17 days . in 85 of the women , a dramatic decrease in the plasma chorionic gonadotropin level was observed on day 6 , and an empty uterus was confirmed by ultrasonography on day 13. hence , these women were considered to have had a complete abortion . fifteen subjects had persistently elevated plasma chorionic gonadotropin levels on day 6 and were considered not to have responded to ru 486. they all had uterine evacuation , which was facilitated by a softening of the cervix . the percentage of women with complete abortion was similar in all dosage groups . furthermore , plasma levels of immunoreactive ru 486 were similar in subjects with and without complete abortion . the only important side effect observed in the responders was prolonged uterine bleeding in 18 percent , but neither blood transfusion nor curettage was required . we conclude that ru 486 is an effective and safe method for termination of very early pregnancy but that it should be used only under close medical supervision . 
inheritance pattern and clinical response to splenectomy as a reflection of erythrocyte spectrin deficiency in hereditary spherocytosis . to determine how various inheritance patterns and responses to splenectomy relate to erythrocyte spectrin deficiencies in hereditary spherocytosis , we measured the spectrin content of erythrocytes by radioimmunoassay in 33 patients with this disease . patients with the dominant form of hereditary spherocytosis generally had mild anemia , with spectrin at 63 to 81 percent of normal levels . patients with the nondominant form of the disease had anemia ranging from severe to mild , with corresponding spectrin levels of 30 to 74 percent ; their siblings were affected similarly . distantly related homozygotes had different clinical severities with correspondingly different spectrin levels . the parents and offspring of patients with the nondominant form were clinically normal but consistently had subtle erythrocyte abnormalities . spectrin levels in all patients were inversely related to osmotic fragility ( p less than 0.0001 ) , and they were also correlated with the clinical response to splenectomy : patients with spectrin levels above 70 percent achieved normal blood counts , those with levels of 40 to 70 percent had compensated hemolysis , and those with levels below 40 percent improved but remained anemic ( p less than 0.0001 ) . we conclude that the inheritance pattern and response to splenectomy in hereditary spherocytosis reflect erythrocyte spectrin deficiencies as determined by radioimmunoassay . 
the acidosis of cholera . contributions of hyperproteinemia , lactic acidemia , and hyperphosphatemia to an increased serum anion gap . to study the metabolic acidosis that occurs during the diarrhea of cholera , we examined the serum anion gap in 21 patients with hypovolemic shock due to vibrio cholerae infection . measurements of serum electrolytes , as well as divalent cations and the anionic contributions of serum proteins , lactate , phosphate , and serum creatinine , were made at the time of admission , after rehydration , and during convalescence . at the time of admission , the mean serum concentration of sodium was 134.8 mmol ( meq ) per liter , that of chloride was 103.2 mmol per liter , and that of bicarbonate was 11.4 mmol per liter ; the mean anion gap was 20.2 mmol per liter . the mean serum creatinine concentration was 2.48 mg per deciliter . the low serum bicarbonate level and the high serum anion gap were corrected by rehydration . the increased serum anion gap was caused by hyperproteinemia , lactic acidemia , and hyperphosphatemia , with anionic contributions to the rise in anion gap estimated as protein , 5.5 meq per liter ; lactate , 2.5 meq per liter ; and phosphate , 2.5 meq per liter . the hyperproteinemia was attributed to dehydration , the lactic acidemia to shock , and the hyperphosphatemia to acidosis and transient renal failure . the mean concentrations of serum calcium and magnesium were slightly elevated but did not affect the increased anion gap . these results indicate that severe cholera causes acidosis with relatively little change in serum chloride but an increased serum anion gap . the acidosis is more profound than would be expected on the basis of stool losses of bicarbonate , because of superimposed lactic acidemia and renal failure . 
case records of the massachusetts general hospital . weekly clinicopathological exercises . case 50-1986 . a 73-year-old woman with dyspnea , apnea , and an adrenal mass . 
case records of the massachusetts general hospital . update of normal reference laboratory values . 
progesterone antagonism : science and society [ editorial ] 
the united states and canada : different approaches to health care [ editorial ] 
fatal acute aortic regurgitation in a person performing the heimlich maneuver [ letter ] 
abnormal circadian melatonin secretion in night-shift workers [ letter ] 
risk of cutaneous melanoma in dysplastic nevus syndrome types a and b [ letter ] 
pins for the neurologic examination [ letter ] 
canada 's health care system ( 3 ) . addressing the problem of physician supply . 
risks of cancer of the colon and rectum in relation to serum cholesterol and beta-lipoprotein . we studied the risk of colorectal cancer in relation to serum cholesterol and beta-lipoprotein in more than 92 , 000 swedish subjects less than 75 years old . the cohort was examined between 1963 and 1965 and followed by means of the swedish cancer register until 1979. during this period , 528 colon cancers and 311 rectal cancers developed . a positive association was observed between the serum cholesterol level and the risk of rectal cancer among men ( p less than 0.05 ) , with a relative risk of 1.65 in men with levels greater than or equal to 276 mg per deciliter ( 7.1 mmol per liter ) . an association was also observed between the serum beta-lipoprotein level and the risk of rectal cancer among men ( p less than 0.05 ) . when cholesterol and beta-lipoprotein levels were considered together , they were associated with both rectal and colon cancer in men . the relative risk in men with both cholesterol greater than or equal to 250 mg per deciliter ( 6.5 mmol per liter ) and beta-lipoprotein greater than or equal to 12 units ( 2.2 g per liter ) was 1.62 for colon cancer ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.18 to 2.22 ) and 1.70 for rectal cancer ( 1.18 to 2.44 ) . similar trends were observed in women , although they were not statistically significant . 
relation between the frequency of colorectal adenoma and the serum cholesterol level . several investigators have reported an association between low serum cholesterol levels and an increased frequency of colorectal cancer . because low cholesterol levels may be a result of an established cancer , we have investigated the relation between serum cholesterol levels and the frequency of colorectal adenomas , which are thought to be precursors of colon cancer . we prospectively studied 1083 consecutive patients who underwent colonoscopy ( 241 of whom were excluded because of malignant disease , chronic inflammatory bowel disease , familial polyposis , or partial colectomy ) . in the remaining 842 patients , analysis of covariance was performed to evaluate the contribution of serum cholesterol to the risk of colorectal adenoma . serum cholesterol levels were significantly and positively associated with the frequency of colorectal adenoma in subjects of both sexes . after adjustment for age and body-mass index , this positive association remained significant between the top quintile and the lowest quintile for serum cholesterol , with regard to the total study group ( odds ratio , 2.0 ; 95 percent confidence limits , 1.1 and 3.6 ) and men only ( odds ratio , 2.2 ; 95 percent confidence limits , 1.0 and 4.8 ) . we conclude that there is not an inverse correlation between serum cholesterol levels and the risk of colorectal adenomas ; on the contrary , there appears to be a small positive association . 
a population-based study of multiple sclerosis in twins . results from studies of twin concordance in multiple sclerosis have not conclusively differentiated between environmental and genetic factors that determine susceptibility to the disease . published studies that have been based on case finding by public appeal have been characterized by difficulties in ascertainment . the data reported here are from a large population-based study of multiple sclerosis in twins , in which ascertainment has been relatively unbiased and the cooperation of patients nearly complete . a total of 5463 patients attending 10 multiple sclerosis clinics across canada were surveyed . twenty-seven monozygotic and 43 dizygotic twin pairs were identified , and the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis was verified by examination and laboratory investigation . seven of 27 monozygotic pairs ( 25.9 percent ) and 1 of 43 dizygotic pairs ( 2.3 percent ) were concordant for multiple sclerosis . the concordance rate for 4582 nontwin siblings of patients at two multiple sclerosis clinics was 1.9 percent , closely paralleling the concordance rate in dizygotic twins . to the extent that the difference in concordance rates between monozygotic and dizygotic twins indicates genetic susceptibility , the results of this study show a major genetic component in susceptibility to multiple sclerosis . 
timing of symptoms and oocyst excretion in human cryptosporidiosis . to determine the timing of symptoms and oocyst excretion after the acquisition of cryptosporidium infection , we used a screening parasitologic stool examination to identify patients and then contacted them for the collection of retrospective histories and follow-up stool specimens . the study included 68 otherwise healthy patients with an identifiable source and time of infection . all 68 had diarrhea , 61 had abdominal pain , most also had other gastrointestinal symptoms , 33 had fever , and all recovered spontaneously . among the 50 patients who submitted follow-up stool samples , more than 90 percent of the 610 symptomatic days and of the 136 oocyst-positive stools occurred between days 7 and 28 of infection , the mean incubation period was 7.2 days ( range , 1 to 12 ) , and the mean duration of illness was 12.2 days ( range , 2 to 26 ) . during the oocyst-excretion period cryptosporidium was detected in 90 percent of ziehl-neelsen-stained fecal concentrates . the end of oocyst excretion could be accurately determined in 26 patients ; 19 ( 73 percent ) had positive stools after the cessation of symptoms for a mean period of 6.9 days ( range , 1 to 15 ) . fourteen patients were studied for two or more months , and in three of them asymptomatic episodes of oocyst excretion were detected up to two months after clinical recovery . we conclude that many cases of symptomatic cryptosporidiosis occur among immunocompetent patients , some of whom may excrete oocysts even when they have become asymptomatic . conversely , infected symptomatic patients may occasionally have intermittently negative stools . 
internal ureteral stents for conservative management of ureteral calculi during pregnancy . 
obtaining access to data from government-sponsored medical research . 
coping with entitlement in medical education . 
affirmative action in south african medical schools [ letter ] 
investigation of sids [ letter ] 
fluosol-da as a red-cell substitute in acute anemia [ letter ] 
familial dependence of the resting metabolic rate [ letter ] 
iodine-131 thyroid burdens of european travellers returning to boston after the chernobyl accident [ letter ] 
accidental profound hypothermia [ letter ] 
auricular fibrillation : an unusual experience [ letter ] 
financial incentives to physicians [ letter ] 
dietary fat and the risk of breast cancer . dietary fat has been suggested as a risk factor for breast cancer in women , but the available data on humans are sparse and inconsistent . in 1980 , 89 , 538 u.s. registered nurses who were 34 to 59 years of age and had no history of cancer completed a previously validated dietary questionnaire designed to measure individual consumption of total fat , saturated fat , linoleic acid , and cholesterol , as well as other nutrients . in a subsample of 173 participants studied in detail , those in the highest quintile of fat intake consumed a mean of 44 percent of calories from fat , as compared with 32 percent for those in the lowest quintile . during four years of follow-up , 601 cases of breast cancer were diagnosed among the 89 , 538 nurses in the study . after adjustment for known determinants in multivariate analyses , the relative risk of breast cancer among women in the highest quintile of calorie-adjusted total fat intake , as compared with women in the lowest quintile , was 0.82 ( 95 percent confidence limits , 0.64 and 1.05 ) . the corresponding relative risks were 0.84 ( confidence limits , 0.66 and 1.08 ) for saturated fat , 0.88 ( 0.69 and 1.12 ) for linoleic acid , and 0.91 ( 0.70 and 1.18 ) for cholesterol intake . similar results were found for both postmenopausal and premenopausal women . these data are based on a limited period of follow-up and do not exclude a possible influence of fat intake before adulthood or at levels lower than 30 percent of calories . they suggest , however , that a moderate reduction in fat intake by adult women is unlikely to result in a substantial reduction in the incidence of breast cancer . 
case records of the massachusetts general hospital . weekly clinicopathological exercises . case 1-1987 . a 58-year-old man with a malignant thymoma and confusion . 
patient-funded cancer research . 
hepatitis b vaccine [ letter ] 
antihypertensive therapy and quality of life [ letter ] 
tax gasoline to save lives [ letter ] 
erythropoietin coming of age [ editorial ] 
coronary thrombosis in non-q-wave myocardial infarction [ letter ] 
the hazards of home oxygen therapy [ letter ] 
is nebulin the defective gene product in duchenne muscular dystrophy ? [ letter ] 
calcium carbonate as a phosphate binder [ letter ] 
psoriasis and raynaud 's phenomenon with antiribonucleoprotein antibodies [ letter ] 
membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis in a patient with hairy-cell leukemia treated with alpha-ii interferon [ letter ] 
determination of helper : suppressor t-cell ratios [ letter ] 
two comments on psychosurgery [ letter ] 
selective loss of the suppressor-inducer t-cell subset in progressive multiple sclerosis . analysis with anti-2h4 monoclonal antibody . the t4+ lymphocyte population includes a subset that induces suppressor t lymphocytes ( t8+ cells ) and can be distinguished by dual-color fluorescence analysis with anti-2h4 and anti-t4 monoclonal antibodies . to investigate the possible role of these cells in multiple sclerosis , we used anti-2h4 antibody to characterize peripheral-blood lymphocyte subsets in 63 patients with multiple sclerosis that was progressive , stable , or acute ( relapsing-remitting ) . twenty-three of 37 patients with progressive multiple sclerosis had a selective decrease in the number and percentage of peripheral-blood t cells that induce suppressor cells ( t4+2h4+ cells ) , whereas only 3 of 16 patients with stable disease and 2 of 10 patients in the midst of an acute attack had a significant decrease . these selective decreases of circulating t4+2h4+ cells occurred in only 1 of 34 patient controls with other neurologic diseases and in 2 of 50 healthy controls ( p less than 0.0001 by fisher 's exact test ) . the absolute number of t4+2h4+ cells and the percentage of reactivity in the populations studied were 187 + / - 28 per cubic millimeter and 8.3 + / - 1 percent in patients with progressive multiple sclerosis ; 353 + / - 60 per cubic millimeter and 14.5 + / - 2 percent in patients with stable disease ; 368 + / - 72 and 14.6 + / - 2.1 percent in patients with acute disease ; 402 + / - 64 and 15.6 + / - 2 percent in controls with other neurologic diseases ; and 519 + / - 44 and 19.7 + / - 1 percent in healthy controls . functional studies using a pokeweed mitogen-driven igg assay demonstrated a correlation between decreased numbers of t4+2h4+ cells and increased production of igg in vitro . family studies showed that the 2h4 antigen was not part of an inherited polymorphic antigenic determinant . our results suggest that in progressive multiple sclerosis decreases in inducers of suppressor t cells may permit the activation of cells reactive with elements of the central nervous system . 
skull x-ray examinations after head trauma . recommendations by a multidisciplinary panel and validation study . the value of skull radiography in identifying intracranial injury has not yet been satisfactorily defined . a multidisciplinary panel of medical experts was assembled to review the issue of skull radiography for head trauma . the panel identified two main groups of patients--those at high risk of intracranial injury and those at low risk of such injury--and developed a management strategy for imaging in the two groups . the high-risk group consists primarily of patients with severe open or closed-head injuries who have a constellation of findings that are usually clinically obvious . these patients are candidates for emergency ct scanning , neurosurgical consultation , or both . the low-risk group includes patients who are asymptomatic or who have one or more of the following : headache , dizziness , scalp hematoma , laceration , contusion , or abrasion . radiographic imaging is not recommended for the low-risk group and should be omitted . an intermediate moderate-risk group is less well defined , and skull radiography in this group may sometimes be appropriate . a prospective study of 7035 patients with head trauma at 31 hospital emergency rooms was conducted to validate the management strategy . no intracranial injuries were discovered in any of the low-risk patients . therefore , no intracranial injury would have been missed by excluding skull radiography for low-risk patients , according to the protocol . we conclude that use of the management strategy is safe and that it would result in a large decrease in the use of skull radiography , with concomitant reductions in unnecessary exposure to radiation and savings of millions of dollars annually . 
case records of the massachusetts general hospital . weekly clinicopathological exercises . case 2-1987 . a 30-year-old man with ataxia-telangiectasia and dysphagia . 
what must be done about aids . 
physicists about to hi-jack dna ? [ news ] 
molecular biology . manipulation just off target [ news ] 
neurobiology . questions of taste and smell [ news ] 
where does the message begin ? [ letter ] 
occam and mankind 's genetic bottleneck [ letter ] 
chernobyl fallout in size-fractionated aerosol [ letter ] 
alimentary restrictions and 131i in human thyroids [ letter ] 
radioactive fallout swipe samples from chernobyl [ letter ] 
aids drug test [ news ] 
aids . academies demand urgent public education [ news ] 
introduction of homologous dna sequences into mammalian cells induces mutations in the cognate gene . injection of homologous dna sequences into nuclei of cultured mammalian cells induces mutations in the cognate chromosomal gene . it appears that these mutations result from incorrect repair of a heteroduplex formed between the introduced and the chromosomal sequence . this phenomenon is termed ' heteroduplex induced mutagenesis ' . the high frequency of these events suggests that this method may prove useful for introducing mutations into specific mammalian genes . 
a single micromanipulated stem cell gives rise to multiple t-cell receptor gene rearrangements in the thymus in vitro . the extensive range of specificities of t-cell receptors is generated , as for immunoglobulins , by rearrangement of genetic information . much valuable information about rearrangement processes has been inferred by comparing dna from ( monoclonal ) lymphoid lines with germ-line dna and , for b cells , from rearrangements in some abelson murine leukaemia virus-transformed cell lines . however , because it is difficult to isolate and grow precursor populations , it has not proved possible to study rearrangements occurring in normal untransformed cells in vitro . here we show that a single t-cell precursor colonizing an alymphoid thymus lobe in organ culture can generate multiple receptor beta-chain gene rearrangements . these observations provide unequivocal evidence for the intra-thymic diversification of the t-cell repertoire . they also offer the possibility of investigating rearrangement and its control in the clonal progeny of a single normal t-cell precursor without the perturbations involved in the use of viral transformation or the production of t-cell hybridomas . 
a chimaeric receptor allows insulin to stimulate tyrosine kinase activity of epidermal growth factor receptor . the cell surface receptors for insulin and epidermal growth factor ( egf ) appear to share a common evolutionary origin , as suggested by structural similarity of cysteine-rich regions in their extracellular domains and a highly conserved tyrosine-specific protein kinase domain . only minor similarity is found outside this catalytic domain , as expected for receptors that have different ligand specificities and generate different biological signals . the egf receptor is a single polypeptide chain but the insulin receptor consists of distinct alpha and beta subunits that function as an alpha 2 beta 2 heterotetrameric receptor complex . provoked by this major structural difference in two receptors that carry out parallel functions , we have designed a chimaeric receptor molecule comprising the extracellular portion of the insulin receptor joined to the transmembrane and intracellular domains of the egf receptor to investigate whether one ligand will activate the tyrosine kinase domain of the receptor for the other ligand . we show here that the egf receptor kinase domain of the chimaeric protein , expressed transiently in simian cells , is activated by insulin binding . this strongly suggests that insulin and egf receptors employ closely related or identical mechanisms for signal transduction across the plasma membrane . 
intracellularly injected tetanus toxin inhibits exocytosis in bovine adrenal chromaffin cells . the clostridial neurotoxins tetanus and botulinum toxin type a are known to block transmitter release from nerve terminals , probably by interfering with some essential process controlling exocytosis after the entry of ca2+ ions . although exocytosis occurs in many secretory cells , these toxins show a high specificity for neurones and the secretory response of cultured bovine adrenal medullary cells is not inhibited by exposure to medium containing tetanus or botulinum toxin type a ( although it is by botulinum toxin type d ) . here we report that when tetanus toxin and botulinum neurotoxin type a are injected intracellularly into chromaffin cells they strongly inhibit secretion , as revealed by the measurement of cell capacitance . these results indicate that these toxins are normally ineffective in chromaffin cells because they are not bound and internalized , so do not reach their site of action . furthermore , we have localized the secretion-blocking effects of the toxin to a fragment comprising the light chain covalently linked to part of the heavy chain , suggesting that this part of the molecule contains the active site . 
alpha-lactalbumin possesses a novel calcium binding loop . calcium performs a unique role in biology , achieving biological effects through highly specific interactions with and modulation of target proteins . it has been proposed that calcium-modulated proteins possess a characteristic , evolutionarily related , binding fold , known as the ef-hand . the high-resolution x-ray structure of alpha-lactalbumin reveals a ca2+ binding fold that resembles an ef-hand only superficially and presumably has no evolutionary relationship with it . however , there is clear homology with the corresponding loop in c-type lysozyme ( the ' parent ' molecule of alpha-lactalbumin ) . this study , at 1.7 a resolution , represents one of the most accurate analyses of a calcium binding protein yet reported . 
bent dna at a yeast autonomously replicating sequence . dna fragments that show retarded electrophoretic mobility through polyacrylamide gels have been found in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes . in the case of kinetoplast dna , evidence has been presented that the dna is curved or ' bent ' . bent dna has previously been found at the lambda and simian virus 40 ( sv40 ) dna replication origins . here we show the existence of bent dna at a yeast autonomously replicating sequence ( ars1 ) , a putative replication origin . the bent dna has been localized to a 40-55 base pair ( bp ) segment and contains six ( a ) 3-5 stretches ( that is , six poly ( a ) stretches , three to five nucleotides in length ) phased approximately every 10.5 bp . this region contains a dna binding site for a yeast protein factor . this site lies at the 3 ' end of the trp1 gene , in a region devoid of nucleosomes , and is positioned 80 bp away from the ars consensus sequence ; removal of this region impairs ars function in vivo . the bent dna may be involved in transcription termination or the prevention of nucleosome assembly in this region . 
us cancer . can nci cut deaths in half ? [ news ] 
ozone depletion . us gets tough on cfc emissions [ news ] 
cytoskeleton . dynamic microtubule dynamics [ news ] 
ocular dominance shift in kitten visual cortex caused by imbalance in retinal electrical activity . monocular lid suture during the sensitive period early in the life of a kitten disrupts normal development of inputs from the two eyes to the visual cortex , causing a decrease in the fraction of cortical cells responding to the deprived eye . such an ocular dominance shift has been assumed to depend on patterned visual experience , because no change in cortical physiology is produced by inequalities between the two eyes in retinal illumination or temporally modulated diffuse light stimulation . a higher-level process , involving gating signals from areas outside striate cortex , has been proposed to ensure that sustained changes in synaptic efficacy occur only in response to behaviourally significant visual inputs . to test whether such a process is necessary for ocular dominance plasticity , we treated 4-week-old kittens with visual deprivation and monocular tetrodotoxin ( ttx ) injections to create an imbalance in the electrical activities of the two retinas in the absence of patterned vision . after 1 week of treatment we determined the ocular dominance distribution of single units in primary visual cortex . in all kittens studied , a significant ocular dominance shift was found . in addition to this physiological change , there was an anatomical change in the lateral geniculate nucleus , where cells were larger in laminae receiving input from the more active eye . our results indicate that patterned vision is not necessary for visual cortical plasticity , and that an imbalance in spontaneous retinal activity alone can produce a significant ocular dominance shift . 
implications of fragile x expression in normal males for the nature of the mutation . the fragile site at xq27 , associated with a common form of x-linked mental retardation ( xlmr ) , is expressed in a variable proportion of the peripheral lymphocytes of affected males when the cells are cultured under thymidylate stress ( td stress ) produced by folate or thymidylate deprivation . some clinically normal males--transmitting males--are known to carry and transmit the fragile x mutation and yet show no cytogenetic expression in lymphocytes . normal males with no family history of x-linked mental retardation express the site only rarely . when the fragile x chromosome from affected males is isolated in a rodent genetic background by somatic cell hybridization , the level of expression is similar to that seen in lymphocytes under td stress . here we show that x chromosomes from two transmitting males and two normal control males , all of which were fragile x negative in lymphocytes or lymphoblasts , could be made to express the fragile site in hybrids , although at levels that were below those seen in hybrids from affected males . furthermore , transmitting males could be differentiated from normal males by their significantly higher expression rates when hybrids were exposed to caffeine before cytogenetic harvest . one male chimpanzee also showed low level expression in hybrid cells . these data suggest that the hybrid system lowers the threshold for fragile x expression , a fragile site at xq27 may be present on all human and chimpanzee x chromosomes and constitutes a previously unrecognized common fragile site and the hybrid system with caffeine post-treatment can distinguish between the common xq27 fragile site of control males , the occult mutant fragile site of a transmitting male , and the fully expressed fragile site of an affected male with xlmr . thus the mutation producing xlmr may represent a multi-step alteration of a naturally occurring dna sequence producing a continuum of cytogenetic expression and a threshold for clinical manifestation . 
analysis of enzymatically amplified beta-globin and hla-dq alpha dna with allele-specific oligonucleotide probes . allelic sequence variation has been analysed by synthetic oligonucleotide hybridization probes which can detect single base substitutions in human genomic dna . an allele-specific oligonucleotide ( aso ) will only anneal to sequences that match it perfectly , a single mismatch being sufficient to prevent hybridization under appropriate conditions . to improve the sensitivity , specificity and simplicity of this approach , we used the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) procedure to enzymatically amplify a specific segment of the beta-globin or hla-dq alpha gene in human genomic dna before hybridization with asos . this in vitro amplification method , which produces a greater than 10 ( 5 ) -fold increase in the amount of target sequence , permits the analysis of allelic variation with as little as 1 ng of genomic dna and the use of a simple ' dot blot ' for probe hybridization . as a further simplification , pcr amplification has been performed directly on crude cell lysates , eliminating the need for dna purification . 
meningitis . puzzling cluster in rural britain [ news ] 
carnegie 's misdiagnosis [ news ] 
fire without smoke [ news ] 
research publishing : interleukin disappears from the literature [ news ] 
aids : german survey 's gloomy outlook [ news ] 
india : move to stop sex-test abortion [ news ] 
japan : body light points to health [ news ] 
nuclear safety : nrc investigates seabrook [ news ] 
mathematics for natural hierarchy [ news ] 
fingers and helices [ letter ] 
chernobyl fallout in debrecen , hungary [ letter ] 
silver from chernobyl [ letter ] 
hysteresis in the perception of motion direction as evidence for neural cooperativity . when elements of a parallel network , such as the human brain , are extensively interconnected , the network can exhibit ' cooperative behaviour ' . such behaviour , which is characterized by order-disorder transitions , multi-stable states , and a form of memory called ' hysteresis ' , has been observed in human stereopsis and has motivated models of stereopsis that incorporate cooperative networks . more recently , cooperative phenomena have also been observed in human visual motion perception . this report strongly supports a cooperative interpretation of motion perception by demonstrating hysteresis in the perception of motion direction . the results agree quantitatively with a mathematical model incorporating nonlinear excitatory and inhibitory interactions among direction-selective elements . 
inhibitory neurones of a motor pattern generator in xenopus revealed by antibodies to glycine . glycine and gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) are inhibitory transmitters of major importance . whereas neurones using gaba as the transmitter can be visualized by immunocytochemical methods for glutamate decarboxylase ( gad ) or gaba , no comparable techniques have been available for the selective visualization of glycinergic neurones . we have now produced polyclonal antibodies which specifically recognize glycine in glutaraldehyde-fixed tissue . we used these antibodies to investigate the distribution of glycine in the simple central nervous system ( cns ) of the xenopus embryo , which contains an anatomically and physiologically defined class of reciprocal inhibitory interneurones , the commissural interneurones . these interneurones have an important role in the generation of the swimming motor pattern and are thought to be glycinergic . the glycine antibodies specifically stain these interneurones , revealing their distribution and number in the embryo cns . this is the first demonstration of the selective localization of glycine-like immunoreactivity in a putative glycinergic class of neurone that has been characterized physiologically , pharmacologically and anatomically . 
aids : who plans megaprogramme [ news ] 
india screens foreign students for aids [ news ] 
biotechnology insured : response to product liability [ news ] 
fluoridation [ letter ] 
evolution : contemplating life without sex [ news ] 
dna structure : a simple solution to the stability of the double helix ? [ news ] 
131i in milk and rain after chernobyl [ letter ] 
baryonyx , a remarkable new theropod dinosaur . an extremely large claw bone , some 30 cm long , was found in wealden ( lower cretaceous ) deposits in a surrey claypit in january 1983. this led to the discovery the following month of the well-preserved skeleton of a new large theropod dinosaur . only one other theropod specimen comprising more than a few bones had ever been found in britain , and that discovery was more than a century ago . indeed , no large theropod , reasonably complete , had previously been discovered in lower cretaceous rocks anywhere in the world . our study so far suggests that the surrey dinosaur was a typical large theropod in certain respects , resembling , for example allosaurus . in several other respects , however , it differs sufficiently from all known dinosaurs to merit designation as the representative of a new species , genus and family . 
functional architecture of cortex revealed by optical imaging of intrinsic signals . optical imaging of cortical activity offers several advantages over conventional electrophysiological and anatomical techniques . one can map a relatively large region , obtain successive maps to different stimuli in the same cortical area and follow variations in response over time . in the intact mammalian brain this imaging has been accomplished with the aid of voltage sensitive dyes . however , it has been known for many years that some intrinsic changes in the optical properties of the tissue are dependent on electrical or metabolic activity . here we show that these changes can be used to study the functional architecture of cortex . optical maps of whisker barrels in the rat and the orientation columns in the cat visual cortex , obtained by reflection measurements of the intrinsic signal , were confirmed with voltage sensitive dyes or by electrophysiological recordings . in addition , we describe an intrinsic signal originating from small arteries which can be used to investigate the communication between local neuronal activity and the microvasculature . one advantage of the method is that it is non-invasive and does not require dyes , a clear benefit for clinical applications . 
the v-fms oncogene induces factor independence and tumorigenicity in csf-1 dependent macrophage cell line . the mcdonough strain of feline sarcoma virus ( sm-fesv ) transforms fibroblast cell lines in culture and produces fibrosarcomas in domestic cats . sm-fesv does not induce haematopoietic malignancies in spite of the fact that its viral oncogene , v-fms , codes for a glycoprotein related to the receptor for the mononuclear phagocyte colony stimulating factor , csf-1 . the v-fms-coded polypeptide includes the complete extracellular domain of the c-fms proto-oncogene product and retains the ability to bind csf-1 specifically . the two molecules have very similar sequences except at their extreme carboxyl terminal ends where 40 amino acids of the c-fms-coded glycoprotein are replaced by 11 unrelated residues in the v-fms product . autophosphorylation of the c-fms gene product on tyrosine is enhanced by csf-1 addition , whereas phosphorylation of the v-fms-coded glycoprotein appears to be constitutive . we now show that introduction of the v-fms gene into simian virus-40 ( sv40 ) -immortalized , csf-1 dependent macrophages renders them independent of csf-1 for growth and tumourigenic in nude mice . these factor-independent cell lines express unaltered levels of the c-fms product which is down-modulated in response to either csf-1 or the tumour promoter 12-o-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) . the induction of factor independence by a non-autocrine mechanism suggests that the v-fms product is an unregulated kinase that provides growth stimulatory signals in the absence of ligand . 
the structure of beta-lactoglobulin and its similarity to plasma retinol-binding protein . since its first isolation , bovine beta-lactoglobulin ( blg ) has been an enigma : although it is abundant in the whey fraction of milk , its function is still not clear . the results of the many physicochemical studies on the protein need a structural interpretation . we report here the structure of the orthorhombic crystal form of cow blg at ph 7.6 , at a resolution of 2.8 a . it has an unusual protein fold , composed of two slabs of antiparallel beta-sheet , which shows a remarkable similarity to plasma retinol-binding protein . a possible binding site for retinol in blg has been identified by model-building . this suggests a role for blg in vitamin a transport and we have discovered specific receptors for the blg-retinol complex in the intestine of neonate calves . 
dna conformation is determined by economics in the hydration of phosphate groups . mixed sequence dna can exist in two right-handed and one left-handed double helical conformations--a , b and z . under conditions of high water activity the b conformation prevails . if the water activity is reduced on addition of salt or organic solvents , transformation occurs to a-dna or , in dnas with alternating purine-pyrimidine sequences , to the left-handed z-dna . in crystal structure analyses of oligonucleotides , the free oxygen atoms of adjacent phosphate groups along the polynucleotide chain in b-dna are found at least 6.6 a apart and individually hydrated whereas they are as close as 5.3 a in a-dna and 4.4 a in z-dna , and bridged by water molecules . we suggest that this more economical hydration in a- and z-dna compared with b-dna is the underlying cause of b----a and b----z transitions . 
' capture ' of stereopsis by illusory contours [ letter ] 
action against aids [ news ] 
national science foundation : new centres for biotechnology [ news ] 
hepatitis b : cheap vaccine for wide use ? [ news ] 
us biotechnology . research centre gets fixed home [ news ] 
laboratory fraud : another damned by publications [ news ] 
us defence : biological war still a threat [ news ] 
nuclear risk assessment [ letter ] 
images in and of the brain [ news ] 
cancer chemotherapy . progress in understanding multidrug resistance [ news ] 
developmental physiology . hard-wired local triggering of intestinal enzyme expression [ news ] 
clinical pharmacology . new hopes for the treatment of coronary heart disease [ news ] 
an alternative view of the origin of life [ letter ] 
the kingdoms of organisms [ letter ] 
how many reactor accidents ? [ letter ] 
body temperature and the specific heat of water [ letter ] 
stunning whales [ letter ] 
us supreme court to review louisiana appeal [ news ] 
a thyromimetic that decreases plasma cholesterol levels without increasing cardiac activity . a number of agents that mimic the ability of the thyroid hormone , t3 , to decrease plasma cholesterol levels are described ; one is as effective as t3 at reducing cholesterol levels and stimulating liver function , but has very little effect on cardiac function and is thus less likely to be toxic . the agent may be useful in the treatment of atherosclerosis . 
reproductive failure in common seals feeding on fish from polluted coastal waters [ published erratum appears in nature 1986 dec 4-10 ; 324 ( 6096 ) : 418 ] the population of common seal phoca vitulina in the westernmost part of the wadden sea , the netherlands , has collapsed during the past few decades . between 1950 and 1975 the population dropped from more than 3 , 000 to less than 500 animals . comparative studies of common seal populations from different parts of the wadden sea reveal that pup production has declined sharply only in the western ( dutch ) part . a comparative toxicological study on the levels of heavy metals and organochlorines in tissues of seals from the western and northern parts of the wadden sea shows that only the polychlorinated biphenyl ( pcb ) levels differ significantly . this is predominantly a result of pcb pollution from the river rhine , which mainly affects the western ( dutch ) part . pcbs are thought to be responsible for the low rate of reproduction in dutch common seals on the basis of epidemiological and experimental data on the ability of pcbs to interfere with mammalian reproduction . here i report that reproductive failure in common seals from the dutch wadden sea is related to feeding on fish from that polluted area . this is the first demonstration of a causal relationship between naturally occurring levels of pollutants and a physiological response in marine mammals . 
a common mammalian plan of accessory optic system organization revealed in all primates . the accessory optic system ( aos ) , which was described as early as 1870 by gudden , constitutes a distinct midbrain visual pathway in all classes of vertebrates . in non-primate mammals , retinal fibres of this system project to a set of three nuclei : the dorsal ( dtn ) , the lateral ( ltn ) and the medial ( mtn ) terminal nuclei . whereas all aos cells respond to the slow motion of large visual stimuli , the neurons are tuned to complementary directions of movement : horizontal temporo-nasal direction for the dtn , vertical up and down for the ltn and vertical down for the mtn . it has thus been suggested that these nuclei establish a system of retinal coordinates for the detection of whole field motion . as the aos provides direct and indirect pathways to both oculomotor and vestibular structures , each of these nuclei is thought to be an essential link in the co-ordination of eye and head movements in relation to movement within the visual-field . one problem for the generalization of this theory is that the medial terminal nucleus has never been found in primates . in this report we establish both the existence of this nucleus and its afferent input from the retina in all major groups of primates ( prosimians , new and old world monkeys and apes ) , indicating a common anatomical plan of organization of the aos in mammals . 
a cell surface molecule distributed in a dorsoventral gradient in the perinatal rat retina [ published erratum appears in nature 1987 jan 15-21 : 284 ] brain topography may have its earliest expression as spatial gradients of molecules controlling the deposition of neurones and neuronal processes . in the vertebrate visual system there is evidence that the stereotyped alignment of central retinal projections relies on an initial spatially organized distribution of molecules in both the retina and its central target nuclei . we used an immunological approach to look for molecules that are so organized and produced a monoclonal antibody ( jones ) which shows a pronounced dorsal to ventral gradient of binding in the rat retina throughout the period when retinal ganglion cell axons are forming topographically organized projections within the central nervous system ( cns ) . binding is present throughout the radial thickness of the retinal epithelium in regions where postmitotic neurones are generated but is not associated with any consistent histological characteristic of the tissue . the antibody was shown to bind on the cell surface of freshly dissociated retinal cells , and dorsal retinal quadrants were found in vitro to have nearly twice as much antigen as ventral retinal quadrants . initial biochemical characterization of the target epitope reveals that it is a lipid present in chloroform / methanol extracts from perinatal retina and is sensitive to neuraminidase digestion . 
endfeet of retinal glial cells have higher densities of ion channels that mediate k+ buffering . a major function of glial cells in the central nervous system is to buffer the extracellular potassium concentration , [ k+ ] o . a local rise in [ k+ ] o causes potassium ions to enter glial cells , which have membranes that are highly permeable to k+ ; potassium then leaves the glial cells at other locations where [ k+ ] o has not risen . we report here the first study of the individual ion channels mediating potassium buffering by glial cells . the patch-clamp technique was employed to record single channel currents in muller cells , the radial glia of the vertebrate retina . those cells have 94 % of their potassium conductance in an endfoot apposed to the vitreous humour , causing k+ released from active retinal neurones to be buffered preferentially to the vitreous . recordings from patches of endfoot and cell body membrane show that a single type of inward-rectifying k+ channel mediates potassium buffering at both cell locations . the non-uniform density of k+ conductance is due to a non-uniform distribution of one type of k+ channel , rather than to the cell expressing high conductance channels at the endfoot and low conductance channels elsewhere on the cell . 
characterization of single pacemaker channels in cardiac sino-atrial node cells . normal pacemaking in the mammalian heart is driven by spontaneously active cells located in the sino-atrial ( sa ) node . the rate of firing of these cells and the modulation of this rate by catecholamines are controlled by if , an inward na- and k-current that turns on at voltages more negative than -40 mv . the ' pacemaker ' current if is also present in other types of cell where its ability to produce and modulate a depolarizing process may be useful . for example , in vertebrate photoreceptors if drives the depolarization that terminates the light-induced hyperpolarization . currents similar to if are also found in hippocampal neurones and drg neurones . the present report shows for the first time that the opening of single if-channels of low conductance ( 1 ps ) can be resolved using a modification of the patch-clamp technique on isolated sa-node cells . modulation of if by adrenaline is shown to be mediated by an increase in the probability of channel opening , whereas the single-channel amplitude remains unchanged . 
glucocorticoid receptors lacking hormone-binding activity are bound in nuclei of atp-depleted cells . the glucocorticoid receptor binding capacity of rat thymus cells disappears when the cells are depleted of atp by anaerobiosis , and rapidly reappears when atp levels are restored . loss and recovery of binding capacity occurs even when protein synthesis is suppressed with cycloheximide . in view of this and similar work in other cell systems , we proposed that in cells deprived of atp the receptor is present in a form--the ' null receptor ' form , as we shall call it--that cannot bind hormone . although many subsequent observations support this idea , no direct evidence has appeared for the existence of the null receptor . we have attempted to detect the null receptor in wehi-7 mouse thymoma cells with a monoclonal antibody to the glucocorticoid receptor . here we report that the null receptor is bound in the nuclei of atp-depleted cells , and is present in amounts comparable to those of receptors in normal cells . 
a new subunit of the human t-cell antigen receptor complex . the t-cell antigen receptor binds antigen in association with a cell surface molecule encoded by the major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) . mhc restricted recognition of antigen by this receptor leads to the complex pattern of programmed gene expression that characterizes t-cell activation . the eventual understanding of human t-cell function will require the complete elucidation of the structure of the human t-cell antigen receptor . on human t cells , clonally determined , disulphide-linked alpha and beta chains of the receptor are non-covalently and stoichiometrically associated with three additional polypeptides known as the t3 complex . these receptor subunits are glycoproteins of relative molecular mass ( mr ) 25 , 000 ( 25k ) and 20k ( gamma and delta ) and a non-glycosylated 20k protein ( epsilon ) . our studies of murine t cells show that the mouse t-cell antigen receptor consists of at least seven distinct polypeptide chains . in addition to clonotypic alpha and beta chains , the murine complex consists of glycoproteins of 26k and 21k and endoglycosaminidase f ( endo f ) -insensitive polypeptides of 25k , 21k and 16k . the latter , which we have termed zeta ( zeta ) , exists as a homodimer within the complex . the 26k component ( gp26 ) has been shown to be the murine analogue of the human delta chain . other cross species homologies remain to be established , however none of the described human receptor components appear similar to the murine zeta polypeptide . we report here the use of an antiserum raised against the murine zeta subunit to identify a previously unrecognized component of the human t-cell antigen receptor . this human protein is t-cell specific and biochemically similar to the murine zeta polypeptide . 
athymic mice express a high level of functional gamma-chain but greatly reduced levels of alpha- and beta-chain t-cell receptor messages . t lymphocytes differentiate and mature in the thymus . it is here that thymocytes with reactivities to self antigens are eliminated and those with specificities to ' altered ' self-major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) gene products are positively selected . the selections are presumably carried out on the basis of their t-cell antigen receptors ( tcr ) . the genes of the alpha- and beta-chain t-cell antigen receptors have been cloned . a third t-cell specific gene capable of undergoing somatic rearrangement has also been identified ; the role of this third gene is not known . an order of expression of gamma , beta , then alpha is found during t-cell ontogeny . but although alpha- and beta-chain messages are often functional , gamma transcripts are rarely functional in thymocytes or mature t cells . to define the sequential order of expression of these genes further and to continue the search for a possible role for the tcr gamma gene products , we investigated the expression of ' functional ' alpha- , beta- and gamma-chain transcripts in young athymic mice . these mice express an undetectable amount ( less than one in 8 x 10 ( 5 ) spleen messages ) of ' full-length ' alpha- and beta-chain t-cell receptor transcripts , but an increased level of expression of ' full-length ' gamma chain messages . nucleotide sequence analysis of four gamma complementary dnas show that all four gamma transcripts sequenced are functional . these findings suggest that gamma gene products may be important in a prethymic or extrathymic pathway and may represent a second type of t-cell recognition , possibly in a lineage in which alpha and beta genes are not used . 
primary structure of the histidine-rich protein of plasmodium lophurae [ letter ] 
aids research queried . skulduggery at the lab bench [ news ] 
monoclonal patent . hybritech versus abbott [ news ] 
new hepatitis-b vaccine launched [ news ] 
highest inhabitants in the world [ letter ] 
a molecular gradient in early drosophila embryos and its role in specifying the body pattern . after fertilization , the protein products of the drosophila homeobox gene caudal ( cad ) accumulate in a concentration gradient spanning the anteroposterior axis of the developing embryo . mutations in the cad gene that reduce or eliminate the gradient cause abnormal zygotic expression of at least one segmentation gene ( fushi tarazu ) and alter the global body pattern . 
cholinergic neurones acquire adrenergic neurotransmitters when transplanted into an embryo . during development , cells become progressively restricted , until they reach their final phenotype . differentiation was originally thought to be irreversible , but phenotypic plasticity has been observed in a variety of cell types , for example sympathetic neurones , the limb blastema and some glial cell types . a detailed description of the individual steps that lead to expression or reversal of phenotype is essential to understand the molecular events underlying cell differentiation . we examined whether ciliary neurones acquire adrenergic properties when exposed to a permissive embryonic environment . cholinergic neurones were selectively labelled with a retrogradely transported marker and injected into chick embryos during active neural crest migration . four to five days after injection , some of the labelled neurones were found in ' adrenergic sites ' and had developed catecholamine histofluorescence . the cells had thus accumulated adrenergic neurotransmitters even after differentiation into cholinergic neurones . this result shows that neurotransmitter plasticity occurs in cholinergic neurones and suggests that the neurotransmitter phenotype can be modified by the embryonic environment . 
the correct activation of antennapedia and bithorax complex genes requires the fushi tarazu gene . in the drosophila embryo the establishment and specification of metameric units depends upon the selective activation of the segmentation and the homoeotic selector genes . the former are necessary for establishing the appropriate number of metameric or parasegmental units , whereas the latter control the pathways of differentiation followed by particular parasegments . classical embryological manipulations have show n that these processes must be closely coordinated during normal development . however , previous studies of pair-rule genes have led to the suggestion that the specification of segmental identity proceeds independently of the establishment of metameres as physical units . these apparently conflicting perspectives can be reconciled by envisaging a common maternally derived positional information system which is independently interpreted by the components of both processes . in the case of the partitioning process , the gap and pair-rule genes would be instrumental in translating this information , whereas the activation of the homeotic genes would be mediated via other intermediaries ( see ref . 9 for review ) . it is difficult to see , however , how such a system could ensure the precise regulation of the tw o types of genes implicit in the final differentiated pattern . this difficulty has led to the suggestion that the segmentation mechanism must define the precise boundaries of selector gene expression . here we confirm this suggestion and propose that the gene fushi tarazu plays a key role in this process , integrating the processes of metameric partitioning and regional specification in the drosophila embryo . 
failure of blood transfusion or naloxone to improve clinical recovery after experimental spinal cord injury . thirty adult wistar rats underwent an extradural clip compression injury of 50 g of force for 1 minute at t-1 . after injury , the animals were randomly separated into three groups : the control group received a saline infusion for the 2-hour treatment period ; the second group was given a blood transfusion over 2 hours titrated to maintain mean systemic arterial pressure ( msap ) at preinjury levels ; and the third group received an intravenous bolus dose of naloxone ( 10 mg / kg ) , followed by a 2-hour infusion of intravenous naloxone ( 2 mg / kg / minute ) . the rats were observed postoperatively for 15 weeks , during which their clinical recovery was measured weekly by the inclined plane technique . at 15 weeks , the spinal cords were removed and prepared for histological assessment . the blood pressure before , during , and immediately after injury did not differ statistically among the three groups . during the initial 2 hours after injury , blood transfusion produced a significant increase in msap ( p less than 0.02 ) and hematocrit ( p less than 0.001 ) , but naloxone infusion did not result in a significant change in msap . performance on the inclined plane at 15 weeks was 35.6 + / - 6 degrees , 32.7 + / - 4 degrees , and 36.1 + / - 6 degrees for the control , transfusion , and naloxone groups , respectively , and no significant differences were found ( p greater than 0.05 ) . histological examination confirmed a consistent injury of moderate severity in all three groups with no major differences among groups . thus , this study demonstrates no significant clinical benefit either from a blood transfusion to maintain msap or from naloxone given by bolus and infusion after an extradural clip compression injury of the rat spinal cord . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
hematoporphyrin derivative photocytotoxicity of human glioblastoma in cell culture . the parameters of hematoporphyrin-derivative ( hpd ) photocytotoxicity of human glioma cells in cell culture were studied to determine the optimum wavelength and power density of light , to investigate the influence of tissue oxygenation , and to evaluate the role of singlet oxygen and free radicals in producing cell death . cell survival curves demonstrated a relative killing efficiency of 12 : 1 for violet compared to red light . eighty joules of red light were required to produce 100 % cell kill at an hpd concentration of 10 micrograms / ml , a level of hpd that has been quantitated in biopsies from patients receiving hpd photoradiation therapy . no difference in cellular killing efficiency was observed for power densities of red light varying from 10 to 100 mw / cm2 . cytotoxicity was directly related to o2 tension from 12 to 490 torr with a slight but consistent increase in cell kill at o2 tensions from 7 to 12 torr . cytotoxicity was effectively quenched by beta-carotene , whereas mannitol had no effect , indicating that cytotoxicity is probably mediated via a mechanism involving singlet oxygen . this information may serve as a basis for more effective application of hpd photoradiation therapy and for designing protocols to study the efficacy of such therapy . 
hemorrhage-induced alterations of rabbit basilar artery reactivity and sensitivity to serotonin . subarachnoid hemorrhage has a profound effect on cerebrovascular reactivity . the present study noted a progressive change in the sensitivity and reactivity of rabbit basilar artery to serotonin after experimentally induced hemorrhage . the basilar artery exhibited an initial diminished response to serotonin for periods up to 6 hours after hemorrhage , whereafter the vessel gradually became hyperresponsive . the hypersensitivity became maximal 36 hours after hemorrhage and then began to return to normal . such early onset of serotonin hypersensitivity and reactivity after subarachnoid hemorrhage has not been previously reported . the level of tension developed , however , suggests that serotonin alone is unlikely to cause vasospasm . the strict differentiation of spasm into early and delayed components is questioned . 
relationship between abnormalities of coagulation and fibrinolysis and postoperative intracranial hemorrhage in head injury . abnormalities of coagulation and fibrinolysis in 12 head-injured patients were studied in early ( within 24 hours of onset ) and late ( 10th to 17th day after onset ) stages . alpha 2 plasmin inhibitor ( alpha 2pi ) , antithrombin iii ( atiii ) , and fibrinopeptide a ( fpa ) and b beta 15-42 ( fpb beta ) were measured in particular , in addition to the usual tests ( platelet count ( plt ) , prothrombin time ( pt ) , partial thromboplastin time , fibrinogen , and fibrin / fibrinogen degradation products ( fdp ) ) . alpha 2pi was abnormally lower , and fpa and fpb beta were much higher ; fibrinogen and atiii were moderately lower in the early stage than in the late stage in 6 head-injured patients with postoperative intracranial hemorrhage . alpha 2pi , atiii , and fibrinogen were moderately lower and fpa was moderately higher in the early stage than in the late stage in 6 head-injured patients without postoperative intracranial hemorrhage . plt and fibrinogen were lower , alpha 2pi was much lower , and fpa was much higher in the 6 patients with postoperative intracranial hemorrhage than in the 6 patients without postoperative intracranial hemorrhage . one patient with acute epidural and subdural hematomas had recurrent postoperative intracerebral hematoma twice . this recurrent hemorrhage was due to disseminated intravascular coagulation ( dic ) caused by primary brain damage and was associated with extremely high fpa and fpb beta levels and abnormally low alpha 2pi and plt . fresh-frozen plasma and intravenous low-dose heparin were administered after the two recurrent hemorrhages , after which fpa and fpb beta normalized immediately , although other screening tests showed only gradual improvement . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
auditory brain stem responses in the prognosis of late postconcussional symptoms and neuropsychological dysfunction after minor head injury . thirty patients suffering from minor head injury were examined with auditory brain stem responses ( abr ) , neuropsychological tests for assessment of higher nervous functions , and a questionnaire on postconcussional symptoms . comparison of the 6 patients with altered abr with the other 24 showed no statistical difference in either the number of long-lasting postconcussional symptoms or the scores on neuropsychological tests . subclinical brain stem involvement as shown by abr does not seem to correlated with impaired mental function or symptoms of the postconcussion syndrome . this greatly limits the use of abr in forensic medicine . 
microvascular relations of the trigeminal nerve : an anatomical study . the neurovascular relationships in the trigeminal root entry zone were studied in 130 trigeminal root entry zones of 65 cadavers . no history of facial or trigeminal pain had been obtained during life in these subjects . the technique of intravascular injection , which allowed good visualization and evaluation of the neurovascular relationships , is described . a total of 42 examples of contact with the root entry zone and 10 examples of compression were identified . in 30 of the examples of contact , the finding could be related to an artery ; in the other examples , it appeared to be due to veins . of the arterial compressions , the superior cerebellar artery was responsible in 53.8 % , the anterior inferior cerebellar artery was responsible in 25.6 % , and pontine branches of the basilar artery were responsible for the remaining 20.6 % . only one instance of unequivocal compression by a vein was found . other anatomical observations of interest are reported . the absence of a history of trigeminal neuralgia in the 7 % of examined nerves in which root entry zone showed arterial compression is in marked contrast to the finding of 80 % or more in the operative series for trigeminal neuralgia . it seems that vascular compressions may be the predominant but not the sole cause of trigeminal neuralgia . 
orbital schwannomas : report of nine cases and review of the literature . the authors report 9 cases of orbital schwannoma out of a total of 148 orbital tumors operated . the computed tomography ( ct ) scan is considered superior to other methods used in the radiological work-up of endoorbital tumors because , in addition to being noninvasive , it gives direct visualization of the lesion and more precise localization both with respect to the muscular cone and tridimensionally . unfortunately , preoperative diagnosis is not always possible solely on the basis of the ct scan because the enhancement of the tumor is not constant , thus making differential diagnosis with meningioma and cavernous angioma problematic . in addition , ct enables the surgeon to choose the best route for tumor removal . operative results are good and are influenced by the use of microsurgical techniques . 
postoperative extradural hematomas : computed tomographic survey of 1105 intracranial operations . we reviewed the computed tomographic findings after 1055 intracranial operations to determine the incidence of postoperative extradural hematomas . there were 11 medium and 5 large hematomas after 1055 operations ( 1.0 % ) . ten of the 16 hematomas were operated upon ( 10 / 1055 , 0.9 % ) . four of the 10 hematomas were seen after 278 brain tumor removals ( 1.4 % ) , another four after 190 aneurysmal operations ( 2.1 % ) , one after 14 intracerebral hematoma removals ( 7.1 % ) , and the last one after 251 ventricular shunting or drainage procedures ( 0.4 % ) . in 4 of the 10 operated hematomas , sites were regional , in five sites were adjacent , and in one the site was distant . all of the five adjacent hematomas extended downward from a lower rim of the operative locus . causes were analyzed in the three types of the hematomas . in case of the regional hematomas , the causes were incomplete hemostasis of the dura mater or the bone in all four patients , nonperformance of central stay sutures in three , systemic hypertension in one , and hypofibrinogenemia in one . in the adjacent hematomas , we could find dural separation at an edge of craniotomy in all five patients , abrupt collapse of the brain in all , ventricular dilatation in two , and systemic hypertension during immediate postoperative period in two . in one distant hematoma , ventricular dilatation and ventricular shunting procedure were themselves thought to be the causal factors . 
symptomatic subependymoma : report of four new cases studied with computed tomography and review of the literature . the authors describe four cases of subependymoma studied with computed tomography ( ct ) and review 18 previously reported cases in an attempt to define the most characteristic ct presentation of this rare , benign tumor . subependymoma usually appears as an isodense , or even hypodense , intraventricular tumor on plain ct scan and shows minimal or no enhancement in postcontrast studies . differential diagnosis between subependymoma and the more malignant true ependymoma is difficult , particularly when the tumor occurs in the posterior fossa . recognition of subependymoma should prompt the surgeon to attempt radical tumor removal because it can be achieved without sacrificing contiguous tissue and carries a good prognosis . 
carotid endarterectomy after recent stroke : preliminary observations in patients undergoing early operation . three patients with recent stroke underwent carotid endarterectomy 1 , 4 , and 8 days after the onset of maximal symptoms . in each case , computed tomography ( ct ) demonstrated recent cerebral infarction and cerebral arteriography showed high grade cervical carotid stenosis . no patient developed worsened neurological symptomatology , intracerebral hemorrhage , or vasomotor paralysis . these results suggest that carotid endarterectomy , if indicated , can be performed safely after acute stroke under certain conditions . these criteria include the following : normal level of consciousness , relatively small cerebral infarction without mass effect on ct , and meticulous control and monitoring of systemic blood pressure during the perioperative period . these initial observations suggest that a specific subgroup of patients with recent cerebral infarction may be able safely to undergo carotid endarterectomy shortly after diagnosis . 
myofascial pain may present clinically as occipital neuralgia . three case presentations illustrate that the clinical signs and symptoms of occipital neuralgia may be produced by myofascial pain . assessment of myofascial trigger points is needed before making a diagnosis of occipital neuralgia . myofascial trigger points can be effectively treated with minimally invasive procedures , thereby avoiding irreversible surgical interventions . 
impact of myelography on the radiotherapeutic management of malignant spinal cord compression . from december 1981 through august 1984 , 24 patients with spinal cord compression syndrome due to epidural neoplasms were evaluated for radiotherapy with clinical examination , radiographs of the spine , and myelography . all plain films were reviewed , and mock radiotherapy fields designed using specific criteria for margins . the same patients were reviewed a second time considering the additional information provided by myelography . the initial treatment fields were found to be inadequate in 69 % of the patients . even in patients with discrete bony lesions , the results of myelography affected the treatment 45 % of the time . a history of previous spinal irradiation significantly influenced port design in only 1 of the 7 patients who had received previous radiotherapy . although invasive , myelography is essential in planning the treatment of spinal cord compression . 
late intracranial metastasis from esthesioneuroblastoma : case report and review of the literature . review of the literature reveals much disparity regarding the incidence , natural history , and survival rate in patients harboring esthesioneuroblastoma ( olfactory neuroblastoma ) . the metastatic tendencies of this tumor have been highly variable in the literature , and reported intracranial involvement has been via local extension from the tumor 's origin near the cribriform plate . our present case describes a metastasis of esthesioneuroblastoma to the right parietal cortex and meninges in a patient without evidence of local recurrence after combined surgical and radiation therapy 5 years previously . the broad spectrum of biological behavior of this tumor , and its response to various therapies are discussed . the immunohistochemical and ultrastructural features of this unusual tumor are also presented . recommendations are made for the management of these patients , including regular serial neurological examinations , serial computed axial tomography or magnetic resonance imaging of the head and neck , and , in the initial management , chemotherapy . 
traumatic aneurysm of the extracranial vertebral artery . aneurysms of the extracranial vertebral artery are rare because of the protection afforded by the bony canal , and the literature contains only a few limited reports on this subject . in the view of its rarity , we present the case of a 20-year-old soldier with a traumatic aneurysm of the vertebral artery at the c-2 level . because of occlusion of the ipsilateral carotid artery , reconstruction of the vertebral artery by autogenous vein graft was undertaken through a posterior approach ; because of inadequate mobilization of the artery , continuity was preserved using aneurysmorrhaphy . the literature is reviewed , and the various treatments are discussed . 
fusiform basilar artery aneurysm in a 33-month-old child . a 33-month-old girl presented with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage from a ruptured multilobulated fusiform aneurysm of the midbasilar artery . this rare lesion was treated surgically by occluding the basilar artery . intraoperative brain stem auditory evoked potential and somatosensory evoked potential monitoring results did not change with basilar artery occlusion , suggesting that the occlusion would be tolerated . however , the amplitudes of brain stem auditory evoked potential waves iii-v to right ear stimulation were transiently reduced during left pontine retraction during the aneurysm exposure . the patient made a complete clinical recovery . 
subdural hematoma secondary to immune thrombocytopenic purpura : case report . a case of successful management of subdural hematoma secondary to drug-induced immune thrombocytopenic purpura is reported . various mechanisms in the causation of thrombocytopenia are discussed . 
spinal arteriovenous malformation presenting at birth : case report . a newborn with paraplegia and evidence of a subarachnoid hemorrhage was found to have a spinal arteriovenous malformation . the arteriovenous malformation was managed by direct surgical obliteration . this patient is the youngest ever reported to have this disorder and the youngest so treated . 
balloon occlusion of a recurrent carotid-cavernous fistula previously treated by carotid ligations . a carotid-cavernous fistula recurred 16 years after a hamby procedure . the recurrence was manifested by subarachnoid hemorrhage originating from dilated draining pial veins . the fistula was closed with a balloon catheter introduced through a patent remnant of the cervical carotid artery . patients who have previously undergone hamby trapping and embolization should be reassessed for an occult fistula that could predispose them to intracranial bleeding . 
primary leptomeningeal glioma mimicking an acoustic neuroma : case report with review of the literature . primary leptomeningeal gliomas are rare . historically , they have been found in the spinal canal more frequently ; however , in the recent literature nearly all have been found within the cranium . in the only cadaveric study of leptomeningeal glial nests , the most frequent site was the medulla and pons . until now , no leptomeningeal glioma has been found at this site . we report what we believe to be the first such case mimicking an acoustic neuroma . 
extracranial-intracranial bypass surgery : a critical analysis in light of the international cooperative study . the ability of extracranial-intracranial bypass surgery to alter favorably the natural history of ischemic cerebrovascular disease remains in question . a recently completed prospective randomized multicenter cooperative trial failed to confirm the hypothesis that the procedure prevents further cerebral ischemia in patients with atherosclerotic internal carotid artery or middle cerebral artery disease . we analyze findings of the study in detail , including possible effects on the natural history of the disease beyond the immediate perioperative period . potential sources of bias that may have unpredictably affected the study are discussed . these include observational bias ( patient and therapist not blinded ) , " randomization-to-treatment " bias ( high morbidity after randomization but before operation ) , and " prerandomization " or allocation bias ( patients in the study representing a selected sample of the population with cerebrovascular disease ) . the extensive analysis of secondary subgroups with small numbers of patients is discussed in light of the statistical methods used . two particular classes of patients not addressed in the study who might benefit from the procedure are defined . they are patients failing the best available medical therapy and patients with clearly documented hemodynamic compromise . possible indications for bypass surgery are suggested for the various lesions in light of the trial and of recent reports on the natural history and pathophysiology of ischemic cerebrovascular disease . selected cases illustrating these indications are presented . 
cerebral vasospasm : a theoretical relationship between systolic thrust and pia-arachnoid fibers . it is postulated that the repetitive thrust of a sensitized blood vessel , at the peak of systole , against a taut pia-arachnoid fiber may produce or accentuate vasospasm . 
spontaneous arteriovenous fistulas with fibromuscular dysplasia [ letter ] 
intraradicular disc herniation [ letter ] 
percutaneous shunts [ letter ] 
skull base : zygomatic approach [ letter ] 
growing fracture of the skull in the elderly [ letter ] 
hemorrhagic infarction after vasospasm due to ruptured aneurysm [ letter ] 
metrizamide [ letter ] 
vancomycin [ letter ] 
microsurgical anatomy and operative approaches to the lateral ventricles . the anatomy needed to plan microoperative approaches to the lateral ventricles was examined in 20 cadaveric cerebral hemispheres . the neural , arterial , and venous structures in the walls of the lateral ventricles and the relationship of the lateral ventricles to the third ventricle and basal cisterns were examined . the operative approaches to the lateral ventricle are reviewed . 
pulsatile versus nonpulsatile blood flow in the treatment of acute cerebral ischemia . the effects of pulsatile and nonpulsatile perfusion on local cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) and on computerized mapping ( cme ) of electroencephalograms ( eeg ) in nonischemic and ischemic brain were studied using a canine stroke model . nine anesthetized mongrel dogs were placed on normothermic right atrial-femoral artery cardiopulmonary bypass at a flow of 100 ml / kg / minute . local cbf measurements and cme data were collected during nonpulsatile perfusion and maximal pulsatile perfusion . the stroke model was then produced , and local cbf measurements and cme data were again collected during nonpulsatile and pulsatile perfusion . in the nonischemic brain , local cbf increased 19 % , from 32 + / - 10 to 38 + / - 11 ml / 100 g / minute ( p less than 0.01 ) , when perfusion was changed from nonpulsatile flow ( pulse pressure less than 4mm hg ) to pulsatile flow ( pulse pressure 39 + / - 11 mm hg ) . in the ischemic brain , local cbf increased 55 % , from 11 + / - 5 to 17 + / - 7 ml / 100 g / minute ( p less than 0.01 ) , when perfusion was changed from nonpulsatile ( pulse pressure less than 3 mm hg ) to pulsatile ( pulse pressure 36 + / - 7 ) flow . eeg power data , expressed as a power ratio index ( pri = low frequency power / high frequency power ) , improved significantly , from 110 + / - 33 to 101 + / - 41 ( p less than 0.01 ) with pulsatile perfusion . these data demonstrate the importance of pulsatile blood flow in ischemic brain . 
quality of life in patients 2 to 4 years after closed head injury . this study evaluated quality of life in 78 patients with closed head injury ( chi ) 2 to 4 years postinjury . using both interview data and mean data from the sickness impact profile questionnaire , impaired quality of life was observed in the areas of psychosocial functioning , social role functioning , leisure activities , and , to a lesser extent , physical functioning , during chronic phases of recovery . relatives and close friends reported by means of the katz adjustment scale that the chi patients showed a series of negative behavioral symptoms 2 to 4 years postinjury . these data suggest that chi patients may experience impaired quality of life in a number of domains well beyond the acute postinjury phases . an attempt was also made to compare patients ' and relatives ' reports of patient quality of life . preliminary analyses indicated modest correspondence between relatives ' and patients ' ratings of some areas of postinjury dysfunction , including cognitive and behavioral slowing and social withdrawal . 
models of spinal cord injury : part 1. static load technique . testing of potential therapies for spinal cord injury has been significantly hampered by the unavailability of a standardized , reproducible animal model with predictable outcome at a given force of injury ( dose-response ) . the rat was selected in the development of this model in preference to larger animals for economy and availability ; this permits use of large numbers of animals to increase statistical validity . in the experiments reported in this article , a static load method ( weight placed gently on cord ) of inducing cord injury was evaluated . a total of 198 sprague-dawley rats were used . under general anesthesia , a one-level laminectomy was carried out at t-12 with the dura mater intact . weights varying from 80 to 150 g were lowered onto the dorsal surface of the intact dura mater for durations of 0 to 300 seconds . recovery of motor function was assessed for up to 8 weeks using two behavioral tests , a modified tarlov scale and an inclined plane test of hind limb motor function . a statistically significant relationship was found between force of injury and motor recovery as measured by the tarlov scale , but this did not correlate with inclined plane performance ; the duration that the weight rested on the cord did not influence outcome . pathologically , there was variation in the extent of damage for a given injury load . a semiquantitative pathological assessment of cord injury showed a statistically significant correlation between pathological score and behavioral deficit as measured by the tarlov scale , but this did not correlate with inclined plane performance . in view of these deficiencies , the static load technique does not seem to be an ideal model for spinal cord injury research . 
models of spinal cord injury : part 2. a mathematical model . a mathematical model was constructed to predict motor performance in rats for 8 weeks after spinal cord injury . the model is based on experimental data generated from an investigation of the static-load technique of inducing cord injury and was derived using multiple linear regression . the regression coefficients for weight of the injury-producing load were statistically significant ( p less than 0.001 ) , and it was found that the weight of the load contributes over 95 % of the posttrauma motor deficit , whereas the time duration of the load resting on the cord contributes less than 5 % to the deficit . sex , pretrauma motor performance , and pretrauma body weight are insignificant covariates . the model may be used to establish expected motor deficits and to derive dose-response curves . 
serum immunocomplexes in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage . immunocomplexes ( ic ) in serum were analyzed in 54 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) from ruptured arterial aneurysms . a previous study had shown that patients with sah and vasospasm had a significantly higher incidence of ics in the blood than patients without vasospasm . the aim of the present study was to study how the ic content varied with time and compare this pattern with the clinical picture . forty-two patients presented clinical or radiological signs of cerebral vasospasm during their hospital stays , whereas 12 patients showed no such signs . the patients with vasospasm had a significantly higher amount of ics in serum than those without vasospasm . in 37 patients with vasospasm , the changes of ic content during the 1st weeks after sah correlated well with the clinical course . data indicated that a high ic content preceded the onset of vasospasm and a low content preceded clinical improvement . this observation supports the idea that the presence of ics might be the cause and not the result of vasospasm . 
functional recovery after decompressive operation for thoracic and lumbar spine fractures . a series of 105 operative cases of thoracic and lumbar spine trauma is presented . all patients underwent an anterior decompression and fusion via the lateral extracavity approach with or without an accompanying posterior internal stabilization procedure ( modified weiss springs or harrington distraction rods ) . all patients were allowed to plateau neurologically before reconstructive spine surgery was performed . the patient 's neurological grade at the time of surgery and after recovery was assessed according to a seven-grade scale presented herein . none of the 34 patients with a motor and sensory complete myelopathy recovered any function below the level in injury . of the 10 motor-complete patients with some sensory perception , 4 improved neurologically ; however , only 1 of these improved to a state of limited ambulation . the rest remained nonambulatory . of the 33 patients with significantly disabling incomplete motor and sensory myelopathies , 17 improved to a level of minimal neurological deficit ; only 3 patients were left nonambulatory . of the 21 patients whose physical finding demonstrated a minimal neurological deficit preoperatively , 17 recovered to a normal neurological state . seven patients were neurologically normal preoperatively and were unchanged postoperatively . reconstruction of the spine with an anterior decompression and an accompanying stabilization procedure , when appropriate , leads to a better neurological outcome than that expected with either a conservative , nonoperative approach or an operative posterior stabilization approach . 
neurological deficit after carotid infusion of cisplatin and 1 , 3-bis ( 2-chloroethyl ) -1-nitrosourea ( bcnu ) for malignant glioma : an analysis of risk factors . the records of 24 patients with malignant gliomas treated with carotid infusion of cisplatin and 1 , 3-bis ( 2-chloroethyl ) -1-nitrosourea ( bcnu ) are reviewed for risk factors that might suggest the development of a permanent neurological deficit after infusion . permanent neurological deficits were seen with doses of cisplatin as low as 69 mg / m2 , although doses as high as 100 mg / m2 were tolerated by other patients . all 3 patients who developed permanent neurological deficits received fixed doses of cisplatin of 150 mg and supplied only 2 major intracranial branches from the infused carotid artery . in none of these patients was a filter used in the infusion line . other risk factors identified in 2 of the 3 patients were diffuse neoplasm involving the region of the internal capsule and the use of an infusion pump rather than a pulsatile bolus infusion technique . the development of a permanent neurological deficit appeared unrelated to the dose of bcnu within the range utilized , and preinfusion administration of corticosteroids did not prevent neurological deficit . these possible risk factors should be considered in the future development of protocols for arterial infusion therapy of malignant gliomas . 
epilepsy after operation for aneurysms . the authors reviewed 100 consecutive survivors of aneurysm operations and identified 3 patients who developed postoperative epilepsy . the use of prophylactic phenytoin in the first 67 cases did not seem to influence the patient 's risk of developing epilepsy . it is concluded that with present microneurosurgical techniques the risk of postoperative epilepsy is small and unselective use of phenytoin prophylaxis should be reconsidered . 
sacrococcygeal rhizotomy for perineal pain . chronic pain in the perineum is a difficult neurosurgical problem . this article evaluates the effectiveness of sacrococcygeal rhizotomy in 28 patients who had cancer-related pain or coccydynia , underwent rhizotomy , and were followed for an average of 3 years . good pain relief was obtained in 53 % ( 10 of 19 patients ) with malignant pain , as opposed to 22 % ( 2 of 9 patients ) with nonmalignant pain . sacral rhizotomy is a reasonable treatment for cancer-related perineal pain , but it is ineffective for coccydynia and other benign perineal pain problems . 
spontaneous resolution of chronic subdural hematomas . four patients with chronic subdural hematomas , all of which resolved spontaneously , were followed from the time of injury to resolution of the chronic subdural hematoma . periodic computed tomographic ( ct ) scans showed spontaneous resolution 78 , 174 , 231 , and 326 days after the development of the chronic subdural hematoma , respectively . features of the ct scans and a possible mechanism of spontaneous resolution are discussed . 
transtemporal approach to the skull base : an anatomical study . the surgical anatomy of a transtemporal approach to the structures of the clivus was defined with the aid of dissections in 10 cadaver heads . the steps in the dissection consisted of first exposing the cervical internal carotid artery ( ica ) , the internal jugular vein , and the caudal cranial nerves , each at the skull base ; then performing small retromastoid and temporal craniotomies ; and , finally , drilling away the petrous and tympanic bone to expose the intratemporal parts of the facial nerve , the petrous ica , the sigmoid sinus , and the jugular bulb . to expose the structures of the lower clivus , the sigmoid sinus was ligated and divided , the facial nerve was displaced anterosuperiorly , and the inner ear structures were preserved . dural opening exposed the anterolateral and anterior surfaces of the medulla , the pontomedullary junction , and the spinomedullary junction . the ipsilateral vertebral artery and often the contralateral vertebral artery and the vertebrobasilar junction , the caudal cranial nerves , and the origin of the 6th , 7th , and 8th cranial nerves were well exposed . to expose the structures of the middle clivus , we drilled away the labyrinth , the cochlea , and a portion of the clival bone . the facial nerve was displaced posteroinferiorly . dural opening exposed the ipsilateral anterior surface of the pons , the midbasilar artery , and the ipsilateral 5th , 6th , 7th , and 8th cranial nerves . a portion of the contralateral anterior surface of the pons was also exposed at times . the superior limit of this exposure was just above the origin of the trigeminal nerve . the exposure of the upper clival structures was limited with this approach , and required medial temporal lobe retraction . two case reports are included to illustrate the application of the transtemporal approach to the exposure and clipping of aneurysms of the vertebrobasilar system . the advantages and disadvantages of this approach are discussed . 
recovery of nerve root function after complete quadriplegia from cervical spine fractures . thirty-five patients with complete myelopathies secondary to cervical spine fractures from c-4 to c-7 underwent spinal decompressions and fusions between 1975 and 1981. twenty-five of these patients underwent simultaneous nerve root decompressions , 23 with an accompanying anterior decompression and fusion and 2 with an accompanying posterior fusion . substantial recovery of nerve root function occurred in 15 of these patients . a posterior reduction and fusion without nerve root decompression was performed in each of the remaining 10 patients . none of these patients demonstrated a significant improvement neurologically . operation for nerve root decompression is indicated in selected victims of spinal cord injury . 
intranasal schwannoma with extension into the intracranial compartment : case report . the authors present a case of intranasal schwannoma with extension into the intracranial compartment . computed tomographic findings are presented , and a combined intranasal and subfrontal operative approach is described . the pathology , origin , and clinical characteristics of intranasal schwannomas are reviewed . 
reactive gliosis simulating butterfly glioma : a neuroradiological case study . reactive gliosis was found in a 40-year-old man who presented with intractable seizures thought to be due to a malignant neoplasm . although two separate lesions located bilaterally in the frontal lobes were evident on the computed tomographic scan , a connection between these lesions along the fibers of the corpus callosum was clearly demonstrated on t2-weighted magnetic resonance images . the unusual radiological appearance of this gliosis , which simulated a malignant butterfly glioma on magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , is reported . because mri is still a new modality , its images should be interpreted with judicious caution . 
cranial metastases from prostate cancer simulating meningioma : report of two cases and review of the literature . two cases of prostatic carcinoma metastatic to the cranium that presented with clinical and radiographic features simulating meningioma are described . the literature was reviewed , and 13 similar cases were identified . from the data gathered , we conclude that metastatic prostate cancer should be considered in the differential diagnosis of elderly males who present with characteristic clinical and radiological features of meningioma and that the classical description of meningioma is not specific . 
staphylococcus epidermidis ventriculitis treated with vancomycin and rifampin . two cases of ventriculitis with staphylococcus epidermidis that failed on therapy with an antistaphylococcal penicillin are presented . both infections responded to a combination of intravenous and intraventricular vancomycin and rifampin . vancomycin and rifampin represent an important antibiotic regimen for the management of resistant infections of the central nervous system , especially with those due to s . epidermidis or methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus . 
unusual metastasis to the cauda equina : case report . a case of intradural metastasis from endometrial carcinoma to the cauda equina is presented . the clinical presentation and radiographic findings were misleading and suggested a herniated nucleus pulposus . findings at operation were most suggestive of an ependymoma , but final pathological diagnosis revealed endometrial carcinoma . this has never been reported . once again it demonstrates that surgeons managing lumbar disc disease must be prepared for possible intradural exploration with an appropriate team . 
supra- and infratentorial arteriovenous malformations with an aneurysmal dilatation : a case report . we report a rare case of supra- and infratentorial arteriovenous malformations ( avms ) , which were separate and consisted of aneurysmal dilations with two or three afferent arteries and efferent veins . surgical resections were performed without the occurrence of additional neurological deficits . we discuss the treatment of multiple avms and stress that size and the structures involved are more important factors in the prognosis than the multiplicity of the lesions . 
eosinophilia of the cerebrospinal fluid in a case of shunt infection : case report . a very rare case of eosinophilic granulocytosis of the cerebrospinal fluid ( csf eosinophilia ) due to drug allergy caused by the intraventricular administration of gentamicin sulfate is presented with a review of the pertinent literature . an unusual clinical course and clinicoimmunological examination are also described . 
brain death . brain death is a condition widely recognized by philosophers , theologians , the public , and the law . criteria for the determination of brain death have been progressively refined for almost 30 years . they involve clinical evidence of the loss of brain function and various periods of observation , which can often be shortened by confirmatory tests , particularly cerebral blood flow studies or electroencephalography . prompt declaration of brain death is therefore possible . in addition , it is important for physicians to offer the possibility of organ donation to the patient 's family both because organs are desperately needed and because many families desire this . a model algorithm for the determination of brain death , explanatory text , and appropriate references are presented to aid the development of protocols for individual and hospital use . 
isobutyl-2-cyanoacrylate [ letter ] 
quantitative computed tomography in dementia of the alzheimer type . men and women with dementia of the alzheimer type ( dat ) had more brain atrophy and ventricular dilatation , measured by quantitative ct , than did respective age- and sex-matched healthy controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . the male dat patients with mild dementia had a larger mean third ventricle volume , whereas male patients with severe dementia had larger lateral and third ventricle volumes , more csf , and less gray matter than did controls . statistically significant and appropriate correlations between several dementia scales and ct measures in the dat patients indicated that brain atrophy and ventricular dilatation were related to the severity of dementia . 
neurologists in the united states--past , present , and future . neurologists in the united states were enumerated for each year from 1935 to 1984 on two bases : board certification ( including child neurology and psychiatry and neurology ) and completion of pg4 neurology residency training . the annual incidence of new neurologists was calculated at less than 200 until 1970 ; then it rose steadily to 380 in 1980 , and plateaued thereafter at 385. the estimated number of neurologists present at one time ( prevalence ) was 1 , 500 in 1950 , 2 , 400 in 1970 , 4 , 600 in 1980 , 8 , 100 in 1990 , and 11 , 000 in 2000. these numbers for total neurologists will plateau at 12 , 200 by about 2010 , at which time the number of certified neurologists will also plateau at 9 , 900. both numbers are notably less than our prior estimate of needs : 16 , 500 neurologists by 1990 , 19 , 100 in 2010. 
association of low blood manganese concentrations with epilepsy . a comparison of hospitalized epileptic patients with matched normals showed that the mean whole blood manganese ( mn ) concentration of the epileptic population was significantly lower than the mean of the normal population . the whole blood mn concentration in the epileptics did not correlate either with seizure frequency or with anticonvulsant therapy . it was observed , however , that patients whose epilepsy was a result of trauma had significantly higher blood mn concentrations than patients whose history was negative for trauma . 
prostaglandin release in multiple sclerosis : correlation with disease activity . release of prostaglandin e ( pge ) was examined in leukocyte cultures from patients with definite ms who had had at least one recent exacerbation , others with chronic progressive or stable ms , and healthy controls . ms patients had higher baseline levels of pge than did controls . patients with active symptoms exhibited a sharp increase in pge release early in or just before the onset of clinical symptoms . levels dropped early in exacerbation immediately after the burst in pge synthesis activity . values gradually increased to control levels and then to preexacerbation levels . similar rises and falls were not seen in stable ms . ms patients may have a circulating population of activated leukocytes that produce pge . 
arteriovenous malformation presenting as hemidystonia . two men , aged 25 and 33 years , had progressive hemidystonia and an arteriovenous malformation ( avm ) in the contralateral cerebral hemisphere . one patient with an avm in the posterior basal ganglia of the right hemisphere had an older brother with severe generalized dystonia . the second patient had an avm in the left cortical and subcortical parietal area with no obvious lesion in the basal ganglia . unlike generalized dystonia , a focal lesion is commonly found in patients with unilateral dystonia . the association of avm-induced hemidystonia and family history of dystonia suggests that genetic predisposition may be important in some patients with hemidystonia . 
peripheral neuropathy in systemic vasculitis : clinical and electrophysiologic study of 22 patients . twenty-two patients with evidence of systemic vasculitis and peripheral neuropathy were clinically and electrophysiologically investigated in a retrospective study . ten had a polyarteritis nodosa , 6 a probable polyarteritis nodosa , and 6 a churg-strauss syndrome . nine patients presented clinically with mononeuropathy or mononeuropathy multiplex considered typical of ischemic involvement of peripheral nerve ; nine had more diffuse neuropathy , two of them a symmetric polyneuropathy . emg examination revealed more diffuse neuropathy than clinically predicted . findings were of acute or subacute axonal neuropathy . 
cerebral infarction in a user of free-base cocaine ( " crack " ) . after smoking " crack , " the free-base form of cocaine , a 27-year-old man suffered an infarction of most of the territory of the right middle cerebral artery . concomitant drug use seemed to have been limited to ethanol and ibuprofen . search for other possible causes was negative . angiography revealed narrowing of the supraclinoid portion of the right internal carotid artery ( ica ) and cutoff of at least two distal branches . there was no beading or irregularity to suggest vasculitis . crack may have induced vasospasm in the ica through recognized sympathomimetic actions of cocaine . 
probing for the human coronavirus oc43 in multiple sclerosis . tissues acquired at autopsy from four patients with ms and biopsies from one patient with a probable diagnosis of ms were probed for the presence of oc43 rna . this human coronavirus was not detected . 
intermittent progesterone therapy and frequency of complex partial seizures in women with menstrual disorders . we studied eight women who had complex partial seizures and anovulatory cycles or inadequate luteal phases . progesterone suppositories were given during the premenstrual phase or entire second half of the cycle in doses of 50 to 400 mg q12h . antiseizure medication levels were kept in the therapeutic range . average monthly seizure frequency declined by 68 % ( p less than 0.05 , wilcoxon matched-pairs test ) in a 3-month treatment period compared with the 3 months prior to therapy , and six of the eight women had fewer seizures . none experienced more seizures or disruption of menses . transient tiredness and depression were noted in some when progesterone dosage was raised above minimally effective levels . these symptoms cleared within 48 hours of lowering the dosage . the value of intermittent natural progesterone therapy as a safe , well-tolerated , and effective adjunct to antiseizure therapy should be assessed further . 
balo 's concentric demyelination diagnosed premortem . we report the first antemortem diagnosis of a lesion showing balo 's concentric sclerosis . a patient with a progressive left hemiparesis had a ring-enhancing , low-density right frontal white matter lesion . on myelin stains of a needle biopsy , alternating demyelinated and myelinated zones in the white matter were diagnostic of concentric sclerosis . the patient improved with prednisone therapy , but relapsed temporarily 15 months later . ct and mri showed additional lesions , but no features unique to this process . he remains alive and employed 3 years after diagnosis . 
immunoblot analysis of circulating antibodies against muscle proteins in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and other neurologic diseases . serum from patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( als ) was tested by immunoblotting for reactivity against three muscle-derived preparations : denervated chick leg muscle extracts , media conditioned by denervated rat hemidiaphragms , and a human muscle extract . for each preparation , multiple bands were present using serum from all patients and controls , and no band was unique to als . against rat muscle-conditioned medium , bands in the 56 , 000 ( 56k ) molecular weight range were present to an equal degree in als and in controls ; in addition , different bands near 56k were recognized by serum from different als patients . these results fail to confirm a recent report suggesting that anti-56k reactivity is characteristic of als . 
nitrous oxide : clinical and electrophysiologic investigation of neurologic complications . prolonged exposure to nitrous oxide produces a recognized neurologic syndrome . we report clinical and electrophysiologic studies of nervous system involvement in a 25-year-old student who abused nitrous oxide . he developed signs of a sensorimotor polyneuropathy and of myelopathy . routine blood studies , csf examination , and myelogram were normal . clinical electrophysiologic studies were performed serially . nerve conduction studies demonstrated reduced amplitude and slowed sensory potentials , and mildly prolonged late responses . sensory evoked potentials revealed prolonged latency of scalp-evoked potentials from tibial nerve stimulation with normal median nerve values . the foveal visual evoked potential was delayed in the right eye , with normal visual acuity , funduscopic examination , and spatial contrast sensitivity . repeat electrophysiologic studies demonstrated improvement . nitrous oxide produces multifocal reversible dysfunction within the nervous system similar to that described in patients with vitamin b12 deficiency . 
spinal intermittent claudication due to anemia [ letter ] 
cricopharyngeal dysfunction due to syringobulbia . 
tga criteria : what 's in a name ? [ letter ] 
correlation of mri with the clinical status of patients with multiple sclerosis [ letter ] 
spontaneous , isolated , mesencephalic hemorrhage [ letter ] 
linolenate metabolism [ letter ] 
radiation therapy versus pelvic node resection for carcinoma of the vulva with positive groin nodes . from 1977 to 1984 , 114 eligible patients with invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva and positive groin nodes after radical vulvectomy and bilateral groin lymphadenectomy were randomized to receive either radiation therapy or pelvic node resection . fifty-three of the 59 patients randomized to radiation therapy received a 4500- to 5000-rad tumor dose in five to 6.5 weeks bilaterally to the groins and to the midplane of the pelvis even if only unilateral positive groin nodes had been detected ; no radiation was given to the central vulvar area . fifty-three of the 55 patients randomized to further surgery had pelvic node resection performed on the side containing positive groin nodes either unilaterally or bilaterally . acute and chronic morbidity was similar for both regimens . the two major poor prognostic factors were clinically suspicious or fixed ulcerated groin nodes and two or more positive groin nodes . the difference in survival for the 114 evaluable patients was significant , favoring the adjunctive radiation therapy group ( p = .03 ) . the estimated two-year survival rates were 68 % for the radiation therapy group and 54 % for pelvic node resection group . the most dramatic survival advantage for radiation therapy was in patients who had either of the two major poor prognostic factors present ; at this time , the benefit of radiation therapy for the remaining patients is uncertain . in this randomized prospective study , the addition of adjunctive groin and pelvic irradiation therapy after radical vulvectomy and inguinal lymphadenectomy proved superior to pelvic node resection . 
endometrial adenocarcinoma in women under 25 years of age . ten cases of endometrial carcinoma in young women aged 15 to 25 years are presented . seven of these ten patients exhibited the clinical characteristics of stein-leventhal syndrome ; of these , three had evidence of polycystic ovaries . nine of the tumors were well-differentiated , adenoacanthomas ( six ) or adenocarcinomas ( three ) and limited to the endometrium . in one case , a moderately differentiated adenosquamous carcinoma involved an ovary and the pelvic wall . treatment consisted of curettage and progestogens in three patients , one of whom later bore two children . the remainder of the women were treated with abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and / or radiation therapy . all patients for whom follow-up data are available are alive and well without evidence of disease . it is concluded that in selected young patients with well-differentiated endometrial carcinoma limited to the endometrium , conservative hormonal therapy and curettage may be adequate treatment and may preserve fertility . 
central nervous system metastases in epithelial ovarian carcinoma . with the advent of systemic chemotherapy capable of controlling metastases at most sites , central nervous system metastases are becoming more common in patients with epithelial ovarian carcinoma . a retrospective epidemiologic review at the university of texas m . d . anderson hospital and tumor institute revealed central nervous system metastases in 13 of 4456 patients with epithelial ovarian carcinoma ( 0.29 % ) registered between 1944 and 1984. no patients were identified as having central nervous system metastases before 1968. the median survival overall was 29 months ; following the diagnosis of brain metastases it was five months . five of eight patients treated for central nervous system metastases lived ten months or longer . patients with isolated metastases to the central nervous system lived longer than patients with accompanying systemic metastases . patients treated with surgical resection lived longer than those who did not undergo surgery . with surgical resection , postoperative irradiation , and systemic chemotherapy , significant symptomatic improvement and long-term remission are possible . 
are cytosol estrogen and progestin receptors of prognostic significance in the management of epithelial ovarian cancers ? cystosol estrogen and progestin receptor levels in tumor samples from 101 patients with previously untreated primary epithelial ovarian cancers were correlated with patient survival . patients with stage i and ii disease whose tumors contained elevated levels of cytosol progestin receptors had an improved survival over patients with tumors containing low levels of cytosol progestin receptors . however , patients with advanced ovarian cancers and low cytosol progestin receptors had significantly longer survival . the four-year estimated duration of survival with advanced disease and cytosol progestin receptors less than seven was 82 % , whereas if the cytosol progestin receptors were seven or more , the four-year estimated duration of survival was only 10 % . the explanation for this dichotomy is not evident at this time . in this study cytosol estrogen receptor levels were not associated with survival . these results suggest that measurement of cytosol progestin receptors is of prognostic value in advanced epithelial ovarian cancers . 
radioimmunoassay of placental alkaline phosphatase in ovarian cancer sera and tissues . a specific radioimmunoassay for human placental alkaline phosphatase has been developed using the 125i-labeled enzyme , highly purified with a fast protein liquid chromatography system and an absorbed rabbit antiserum . the sensitivity of this assay was 0.2 u / l . serum levels of over 0.2 u / l were found in 27 % of ovarian cancer patients , and most of these elevated enzyme levels occurred with more advanced stages of the disease . on the other hand , almost all ovarian cancer tissue contained detectable levels of the enzyme . serous adenocarcinoma , endometrioid adenocarcinoma , and dysgerminoma had particularly large amounts . placental alkaline phosphatase was more frequently detected in tissue than in the serum of ovarian cancer , and therefore may be a useful target in immunodetection and immunotherapy and in studying the histopathology of ovarian cancer . 
maternal perception of prelabor uterine activity . patient perception of uterine activity was assessed objectively in 44 women at risk for preterm labor using a tocodynamometer designed for ambulatory outpatient use . the monitor allowed patient-activated marking of the data whenever contractions were perceived . after instruction in self-detection of uterine activity , tocodynamometry was performed daily for 8.5 weeks per patient . patients identified an average of 15 % of their contractions during the study ( range 0-78 % ) . numerous marks were placed in the absence of any detectable uterine activity . of multiple obstetric variables analyzed , only multifetal gestation and preterm labor in the current pregnancy had any significant impact on perception . results suggest that self-detection of uterine activity may not be reliable as the only means for the earliest possible detection of preterm labor . 
false labor . the nature of false labor and its influence on the subsequent course of true labor was examined by a retrospective case-controlled matched study of 83 patients admitted in false labor . patients with a history of false labor had a significantly greater incidence of dysfunctional labor when true labor did commence . the frequency of cesarean section was also higher , though not statistically significantly so . the dilatation of the cervix and the station of the presenting part at admission were both significantly different in patients with false labor from those in true labor ; however , the overlap of these two groups makes this of limited clinical use . time of day and day of the week did not correlate with the likelihood of being admitted in false labor . 
detection of preterm labor by ambulatory monitoring of uterine activity : a preliminary report . effective tocolytic therapy depends on the ability to make an early diagnosis of preterm labor . this study was designed to assess whether daily ambulatory home monitoring of uterine activity could facilitate early diagnosis of preterm labor . of 76 patients at high risk for preterm labor who used daily ambulatory tocodynamometry , approximately half developed preterm labor . evaluation when the diagnosis of preterm labor was first established has shown that in 8 % of the patients the cervix was dilated more than 2 cm , shortened to less than 0.5 cm in 23 % , and the fetal membranes were intact in all subjects . the same evaluation in 76 nonrandom contemporary controls matched for risk factors , maternal age , and parity has shown that more than 50 % had a cervix dilated more than 2 cm , 38 % had a cervix shorter than 0.5 cm , and 24 % had rupture of the fetal membranes . ultimately , 88 % of the monitored patients and 59 % of controls delivered at term . comparisons between these groups indicate that intermittent home tocodynamometry may indeed be useful in making the early diagnosis of preterm labor . 
failed forceps . among 53 cases of failed forceps occurring in 6524 uncomplicated primiparous deliveries , depression at birth and encephalopathy occurred with similar frequency as when cesarean section was done for failure to progress in the second stage , and birth trauma was no more common than that with successful midforceps delivery . factors predisposing to or associated with midforceps deliveries or second stage cesarean sections were short mothers , heavy babies , induced or prolonged labors , and fetal distress or meconium release in labor . 
erb / duchenne 's palsy : a consequence of fetal macrosomia and method of delivery . methods of delivery , maternal and neonatal characteristics were examined to determine their role in the occurrence of erb / duchenne 's palsy . data from 210 , 947 washington state birth certificates from 1980 through 1982 were examined . the incidence was 50.2 cases of erb 's palsy per 100 , 000 live births . a case control study design was used to analyze 106 cases and 386 controls by both univariable and multivariable analysis . birth weight was shown to be a significant risk factor regardless of which method of delivery was used . a high birth weight infant ( 4001-4500 g ) had 2.5 times the risk of incurring an upper brachial plexus injury compared with normal size infants ( 2501-4000 g ) . the risk for infants greater than 4500 g increased another tenfold ( or = 21.0 ) . when birth weight was controlled for in the analysis , midforceps ( or = 18.3 ) , vacuum extraction ( or = 17.2 ) , and low forceps ( or = 3.7 ) remained significantly associated with the erb 's palsy . delivery by cesarean section was associated with a significant protective effect ( or = 0.5 ) compared with instrumental vaginal delivery . these data demonstrate a high risk for serious birth injury associated with instrumental midpelvic delivery . 
puerperal pelvic thrombophlebitis : impact on diagnosis and treatment using x-ray computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging . the clinical diagnosis of puerperal pelvic thrombophlebitis was confirmed by x-ray computed tomography in 11 women , and further documented in six by magnetic resonance imaging . venous thrombi were demonstrated in ovarian , iliofemoral , and inferior vena caval vessels . in six women with ovarian vein involvement and no evidence of iliofemoral thrombophlebitis , resolution followed intravenous antimicrobial therapy alone , and in three of these , resolution was confirmed by x-ray tomography . in contrast , three of five women with symptomatic iliofemoral thrombophlebitis had a prolonged febrile course despite antimicrobial and heparin therapy . the clinical courses of these 11 women were consistent with the observation that pelvic thrombophlebitis is associated with pelvic infection . disease manifested within a few days after parturition was more likely due to ovarian vein involvement , whereas disease with later onset of symptoms was more likely due to iliofemoral thrombosis , with or without vena caval extension . through the use of x-ray computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging , the natural course of pelvic thrombophlebitis can be better elucidated and therapeutic regimens more clearly evaluated . 
rarity of cesarean delivery in cases of juvenile-onset respiratory papillomatosis . papillomas of the respiratory and genital tracts are caused by the same papillomavirus genotypes , and mothers of children with respiratory papillomatosis often have a history of genital warts . only one of 109 cases reviewed gave a history of birth by cesarean section , whereas ten cesarean deliveries would have been the expected number for this group on the basis of national rates . the single case was delivered by elective cesarean section before the rupture of the membranes , and the child developed respiratory papillomatosis in the first year of life . these findings suggest that in juvenile-onset disease , the transmission of infection from mother to child occurs most often during passage through an infected birth canal , but that intrauterine infection of the fetus is also possible . papillomavirus infection of the female genital tract is common , but respiratory papillomatosis is rare . on the basis of crude estimates of annual number of children born to infected mothers and of new cases of juvenile-onset disease , the risk of developing disease for a child born to an infected mother was calculated to be one in several hundred exposures . 
admission test : a screening test for fetal distress in labor . the usefulness of a short electronic fetal heart rate recording at admission of patients in labor ( admission test ) was investigated in low-risk patients in two prospective studies . the admission test was done in a concealed manner , and the result of the test was evaluated after delivery so as not to influence the clinical management . in part i of the investigation , the test was performed in 130 patients monitored during labor with ph determinations in scalp blood and in cord blood at birth . patients with reactive admission tests had a low rate of intrauterine asphyxia in labor ( 0.9 % ) , whereas half of the patients with ominous traces had intrauterine fetal asphyxia with a low scalp blood ph and neonatal depression . similar results were obtained in part ii , when the admission test was used as a screening procedure involving 1041 patients . the test was reactive in 94.3 % , and in this group fetal distress ( cesarean section , or forceps on that indication , or an apgar score less than 7 at five minutes ) occurred in 1.3 % . ten patients ( 1.0 % ) had ominous tests ; four of these had fetal distress , and one of these fetuses died in utero three hours after admission , during which time stethoscopic auscultation failed to detect the fetal compromise . it is concluded that the admission test can detect fetal distress already present at admission and unnecessary delay in intervention can be avoided in such a case . the test seems also to have some predictive value for the fetal well-being for the next few hours of labor . the test is simple and convenient for screening purposes . 
peripartum colloid osmotic pressures : correlation with serum proteins . colloid osmotic pressure is a principal regulator of capillary fluid exchange . alterations in colloid osmotic pressure in preeclamptic patients , as well as significant peripartum changes in colloid osmotic pressure in normotensive patients , are reported . in a study of 72 normotensive and preeclamptic patients , peripartum colloid osmotic pressure , serum albumin , and total serum protein were compared . both groups exhibited significantly lower colloid osmotic pressure in the postpartum period than that measured antepartum . the mean antepartum colloid osmotic pressure in preeclamptic patients was significantly lower than in normotensive subjects . regression equations were calculated [ colloid osmotic pressure = 5.21 ( total serum protein ) -11.4 ( r2 = 0.851 ) ] and [ colloid osmotic pressure = 8.1 ( serum albumin ) -8.2 ( r2 = 0.891 ) ] . within the physiologic ranges most commonly reported for normotensive and preeclamptic patients , the use of these equations allowed calculation of colloid osmotic pressure to within 10 % of measured values in 75 and 80 % of the cases , respectively . where direct measurement of colloid osmotic pressure is not readily available , calculated values may be helpful in patient management . 
pregnancy causes a decrease in the number and affinity of myometrial angiotensin ii receptors . the pressor response to exogenously infused angiotensin ii is decreased in normal human and ovine pregnancy when compared to the nonpregnant state . this study was designed to determine the mechanism for decrease in target organ sensitivity by examining pregnancy-induced changes in the affinity and number of angiotensin ii receptors in myometrium from pregnant and nonpregnant sheep . tissues were obtained from four ovariectomized sheep given 50 micrograms estradiol-17 beta on days 3 and 5 postsurgery and from four pregnant sheep ( mean gestational age 136 days ) . binding of 125i-angiotensin ii was determined in particulate fractions of myometrium prepared by differential centrifugation . the 125i-angiotensin ii binding to myometrial preparations was specific , saturable , and linear with protein concentration . in the nonpregnant group , binding capacity for angiotensin ii in myometrium was 502 + / - 76 fmol / mg protein , whereas in the pregnant group it was 184 + / - 65 fmol / mg protein ( p less than .01 ) . receptor affinity also was less ( kd 1.72 + / - 0.39 nm ) during pregnancy compared with the nonpregnant sheep uterus ( 3.9 + / - 0.80 nm ; p less than .01 ) . these data support the hypothesis that the decrease in target organ sensitivity to exogenously administered angiotensin ii during pregnancy in human and ovine species may be secondary to a decrease in the total number and affinity of specific angiotensin ii receptors . 
morphometric analysis of dysplasia in cervical cone biopsy specimens in cases with false-negative cytology . conization specimens with a histologic diagnosis of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia iii were reviewed with respect to cytology findings in the three months preceding conization . in 29 % of the cases , one or more false-negative cytology reports preceded conization . no dysplastic cells were found on review of the false-negative cytology slides from these cases . morphometric analysis of surface dysplasia in the conization specimens was performed to explain these findings . a statistically significantly greater surface area of dysplasia and greater spread of dysplastic cells in the endocervical canal was found in the positive cytology when compared to the false-negative cytology cases . no difference in vaginal spread of dysplasia existed between the two groups . the endocervical canal was sampled with a moist cotton swab in all of the cases . the results suggest that small numbers of dysplastic cells high in the endocervical canal may not be effectively sampled by cotton swabs in cases of false-negative cervical cytology , lowering screening sensitivity . 
prophylactic topical 5-fluorouracil following treatment of human papillomavirus-associated lesions of the vulva and vagina . ninety patients were studied in a controlled , randomized fashion to evaluate the effectiveness of topical 5-fluorouracil in reducing the recurrence rate of human papillomavirus-associated lesions of the vulva and vagina . following complete ablation of the lesions by one or more treatment modalities , 45 patients applied a single dose of 5 % 5-fluorouracil cream biweekly to the vagina and / or vulva for at least six months . forty-five patients used no prophylactic 5-fluorouracil cream . patients in both groups were comparable with regard to race , age , and immune status , as well as the number , location , duration , clinical appearance , histology , and prior treatment of the lesions . six patients ( 13 % ) with 5-fluorouracil prophylaxis and 17 ( 38 % ) without additional treatment ( p less than .01 ) developed recurrent lesions during a follow-up time of nine to 22 months ( mean = 14.4 months ) . maintenance therapy with 5-fluorouracil was most effective in women with multiple lesions , multiple organ involvement , or with a depressed immune system . 
neutropenia and fever in patients undergoing combination chemotherapy for malignant germ cell tumors of the ovary . fifteen neutropenic febrile episodes occurred in 29 patients undergoing chemotherapy for malignant germ cell tumors of the ovary . vincristine , actinomycin-d , and cyclophosphamide were used in 24 patients ; cis-diamminedichloroplatinum , vinblastine , and bleomycin in three ; and both regimens in two . all 15 patients were treated with antibiotic combinations ( gentamicin and clindamycin in 12 cases ) , usually until neutropenia resolved . the mean nadir total granulocyte count was 123 / mm3 . there was no septicemia or drug-related deaths . with reduction in chemotherapy dosage , 87 % of patients tolerated subsequent courses . the survival rates in this disease are excellent , although toxicity is substantial from both regimens . these neutropenic febrile episodes can be managed successfully without interrupting chemotherapy . 
ovarian histology and function after total abdominal hysterectomy . ovarian histology and function were assessed before and after total abdominal hysterectomy in 25 patients with symptomatic uterine myomata . immediately before hysterectomy , bilateral ovarian biopsies were performed , and , 12 months later , all patients underwent a second ovarian biopsy through laparoscopy . histologic study of the ovaries one year after total abdominal hysterectomy showed stromal cell hyperplasia , thickening of the tunica albuginea , and a significant decrease of follicular reserve , follicular cysts , and corpora albicantia . there was no significant difference in the number of atretic follicles and corpora lutea . the serum levels of all hormones studied were unchanged 12 months after the surgical procedures . 
breast cancer risk in relation to early oral contraceptive use . it has been suggested that the risk of breast cancer is increased by oral contraceptive use before the first birth , or by use before age 25 , particularly if certain formulations are used . these hypotheses were evaluated in a hospital-based case-control study . a total of 521 patients under age 45 with breast cancer were compared with 521 controls matched for age , time of interview , and geographic area . oral contraceptive use before the first birth was reported by 155 patients and 137 controls . with allowance for confounding by multivariate analysis , the estimated relative risk was 1.0 ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.6-1.5 ) . the estimate was 1.0 ( 0.2-3.9 ) for any use among nulliparous women and 0.6 ( 0.3-1.3 ) for use before the first birth among parous women . use before age 25 was reported by 145 patients and 141 controls , and the multivariate relative risk estimate was 1.0 ( 0.7-1.6 ) ; the results were similar when use of specific formulations was examined . for oral contraceptive use before either the first birth or age 25 , the relative risk estimates were compatible with 1.0 for use of five or more years ' duration or an interval since first use of at least 15 years . there was also no evidence of an increased risk in any subgroup including those at increased underlying risk because of factors such as a family history of breast cancer or a history of cystic breast disease . the findings suggest that , up to age 45 , the risk of breast cancer is not influenced by the use of oral contraceptives before the first birth or before age 25 even if the use lasted for five or more years . 
obstetric anesthesia services [ editorial ] 
preeclampsia is not associated with excess fetal clotting . paired maternal and umbilical vein blood samples were obtained from 15 women and the plasma antithrombin iii activity and fibrinopeptide a concentration measured . women with preeclampsia had significantly lower antithrombin iii activities and higher fibrinopeptide a concentrations ( p less than .05 ) than normals . however , there were no significant differences between the two groups of fetuses . thus , thrombin generation was not increased in the fetuses delivered from preeclamptic women . 
ovarian cancer recurrences in patients with no macroscopic tumor at second-look laparotomy . second-look laparotomy has been relied upon extensively to guide the treatment of ovarian cancer . among patients with other than well-differentiated primary tumors , the recurrence rate approximates 50 % for patients with either negative or microscopically positive findings at second-look laparotomy . although patients with persistent microscopic disease have received additional therapy , the patients with negative findings have not . the risk of recurrence seems high enough to consider adjuvant therapy for patients with negative findings at second-look laparotomy . however , since half of the patients remain disease free for an extended interval , and in view of the potential toxicity , any adjuvant treatment should be carried out by strict investigational protocol . 
cervical ripening and preterm labor [ letter ] 
parenteral estrogens for pregnancy prophylaxis [ letter ] 
safety of local versus general anesthesia for second-trimester dilatation and evacuation abortion [ letter ] 
cavitation bubble dynamics and acoustic transient generation in ocular surgery with pulsed neodymium : yag lasers . the authors have investigated the application of mode-locked and q-switched neodymium : yag ( nd : yag ) lasers in ocular surgery by means of high-speed photography and hydrophone measurements . the incisive effect relies on the optical breakdown at the laser focus . cavitation bubbles and acoustic transients are thereby generated . their size and pressure amplitude have been measured at various laser-pulse energies . with a pulse energy of 5 mj , the bubble is 1.5 to 2.3 mm in diameter and the pressure of the acoustic transient is 9 to 16 bar ( 130 to 230 psi ) at a distance of 18 mm from the focal point . bubble size and amplitude of the pressure pulse are always approximately 50 % higher with a q-switched laser than with a mode-locked laser . however , the size of the ruptures produced in a polyethylene membrane by the laser pulses is the same for both modes of operation . the energy balance shows that not only mechanical effects , but also thermal mechanisms are responsible for photodisruption . 
the effect of neodymium : yag laser capsulotomy on aqueous humor dynamics in the monkey eye . the creation of a posterior capsulotomy utilizing a neodymium : yag ( nd : yag ) laser is often followed by an increase in the intraocular pressure ( iop ) . in order to study the cause of this pressure rise , six eyes of three cynomolgus monkeys underwent extracapsular cataract extraction followed 2 to 3 months later by nd : yag laser capsulotomy . eyes were evaluated clinically and examined histopathologically at 1 hour , 3 hours , 1 day , 3 days , 1 week , and 1 month after laser treatment . although iop did not increase after laser capsulotomy , outflow facility was decreased 80 % from baseline levels at 3 hours , at 3 hours , 1 day , and 3 days . after laser treatment , the anterior chamber and meshwork contained fibrin , lens material , inflammatory cells , pigmented macrophages , erythrocytes , and free pigment . most of these elements had cleared the meshwork by 1 month . 
progressive hyperopia in radial keratotomy . long-term follow-up of diamond-knife and metal-blade series . in an earlier report , the authors demonstrated a trend toward progressive hyperopia in radial keratotomy ( rk ) patients examined between one and three to four years postoperatively . in those 109 cases , the surgeries were performed using a metal-blade instrument . in the following study , the metal-blade series was updated to a total of 225 procedures , and a more recent series of 300 procedures performed on 228 patients was examined in which a diamond-knife cutting instrument was used . patients had uncorrected visual acuity determination , cycloplegic refractions with best corrected visual acuity measurements and keratometry measurements . the authors demonstrated a hyperopic shift in the distribution of postoperative spherical equivalent ( se ) values across time such that higher proportions of cases in both metal-blade and diamond-knife series were at least 1.0 diopter ( d ) away from emmetropia at 24 and 48 months than was the case at 12 months after surgery . regression analysis determined that none of the preoperative or surgical variables known to affect refractive outcome of rk ( alone or in combination ) could account for the changes in refraction seen during the course of postoperative time . in general , changes in keratometry paralleled refractive changes , but were somewhat smaller in magnitude . 
is the corneal posterior cell layer truly endothelial ? the posterior cell layer of the normal human cornea or " endothelium " was investigated by electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry . ultrastructurally , the cells lacked the characteristic marker for endothelial cells ( weibel-palade body ) . immunoperoxidase studies demonstrated these cells to be negative for factor viii antigen , but strongly positive for keratine , vimentin , s-100 protein , and neuron-specific enolase . the anterior epithelial cell layer showed identical immunoreactivity . these studies strongly suggest that the posterior cell layer of the cornea lacks ultrastructural and immunocytochemical markers of endothelial cells and both the anterior and posterior cell layers share similar cell markers . the authors propose that the posterior cell layer of the cornea should , therefore , not be misnamed as " endothelium . " 
radial keratoneuritis as a presenting sign in acanthamoeba keratitis . three myopic patients who wore soft contact lenses developed unilateral acanthamoeba keratitis that presented with unusual infiltrates that appeared to be located along the corneal nerves . these infiltrates were found in the midstroma , beginning paracentrally , and extending to the limbus in a radial pattern . the epithelium overlying these infiltrates was intact . in two patients , the central epithelium had a stippled , almost dendritiform appearance leading to the misdiagnosis of herpes simplex keratitis . cultures from corneal scrapings of two patients and cultures of a corneal biopsy from one patient , which included an area of presumed neural involvement , grew acanthamoebae . all three patients used homemade saline solutions ( salt tablets dissolved in distilled water ) . in one patient , acanthamoebae were found in the contact lens case solution . in our recent experience , acanthamoebae have also been found in the distilled water bottle and the saline solution made from distilled water and salt tablets in two additional patients with a . keratitis . distilled water , which is not sterile , has proven to be one potentially avoidable source of a . keratitis in contact lens wearers . 
anterior clear spaces in keratoconus . anterior clear spaces were observed prospectively at slit-lamp examination in 26 of 69 consecutive eyes ( 38 % ) with keratoconus . two corneal buttons with this finding were examined by light and electron microscopy and revealed breaks in bowman 's layer . anterior clear spaces should be considered in the spectrum of clinical findings in keratoconus . 
systemic tetracycline hydrochloride as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of persistent epithelial defects . recent evidence shows tetracyclines have anticollagenolytic activity that may be clinically effective in disease treatment . this led us to use systemic tetracycline ( oral tetracycline hydrochloride 1 g daily divided into 4 doses ) as adjunctive therapy in treating 18 patients with persistent corneal epithelial defects . fourteen of 18 patients healed their defects ; within 48 hours ( 9 patients ) and within two weeks ( the other 5 responding patients ) . two patients showed no effect and two showed disease progression . 
incidence and prognosis of childhood glaucoma . a study of 63 cases . sixty-three consecutive cases ( 95 eyes ) of glaucoma in children were studied . glaucoma associated with congenital anomalies ( group ii ) formed the largest group in this study . this accounted for 46 % of the cases compared to primary congenital glaucoma ( group i ) that accounted for 22.2 % . secondary glaucoma ( group iii ) occurred in 31.8 % . the presenting signs and symptoms in group i were tearing and corneal edema . in 50 % of the cases in groups ii and iii , diagnosis was made on a routine ophthalmologic examination . surgery was performed in 95.8 % of eyes in group i , 53.2 % in group ii , and 54.2 % in group iii . the best visual prognosis occurred in group i where 77.3 % of affected eyes had visual acuity equal to or better than 20 / 50 with good pressure control in all . this was followed by group ii where 41.5 % had vision equal to or better than 20 / 50 and 41.4 % had 20 / 200 vision or less . intraocular pressure remained uncontrolled in 19.1 % of this group . the worst prognosis and morbidity was found in group iii where 30.5 % of eyes had 20 / 50 vision or better and 47.8 % had 20 / 200 vision or less . in group iii , 33.3 % had uncontrolled intraocular pressure . 
fetal adenoma of the pigmented ciliary epithelium associated with persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous . a 1.5-year-old girl presented with a peripheral iris mass . when the girl was 3 years old , the lesion was excised after it had manifested significant growth . a stalk of fibrovascular tissue was noted to extend from the lesion to the optic disc . histopathologically , the tumor was a well-circumscribed , pigmented ciliary body adenoma . electron microscopy revealed characteristic neuroepithelial melanosomes , distinct from those of choroidal melanocytes , and occasional annulate lamellae . a fibrovascular membrane extended over the tumor surface and was adherent to lens capsule . the association of this adenoma with a persistent stalk of primary vitreous indicates a congenital origin of this tumor . both adenoma and adenocarcinoma of the pigmented and nonpigmented ciliary epithelium tend to be disorders of adults . the authors report the youngest presentation of a pigment epithelium adenoma , the only well-documented case associated with persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous , and the only documentation of annulate lamellae in a ciliary body tumor . 
benign osteoblastoma of the orbit . benign osteoblastoma is a rare , solitary , vascular , osteoid-producing tumor that is rich in osteoblasts . this is the first report of a case of osteoblastoma of the orbit not contiguous with a sinus cavity . 
lacrimal ductal cysts . cyst formation can occur in any location where lacrimal gland tissue is present . a new classification is proposed based on these locations : palpebral lobe cysts ( simple dacryops ) ; orbital lobe cysts ; cysts of the accessory lacrimal glands of krause and wolfring ; and cysts of ectopic ( choristomatous ) lacrimal glands . the characteristic clinical presentation , histopathology , and treatment of these lacrimal ductal cysts is described . 
light and electron microscopic findings with permanent eyeliner . pathologic studies were performed on two specimens of eyelid that had been treated with permanent eyeliner ( tattooing with ferrous oxide ) , one specimen excised four days after injection of the pigment , and the other obtained 12 months later . each patient had undergone an ectropion repair of the lower eyelid that provided the specimen . the specimen studied four days after injection revealed by light microscopy scattered pigment granules within the epidermis and fine granules and small aggregates dispersed within the dermis . no acute or chronic inflammatory cells were observed in relationship to the deposits . the specimen obtained 12 months after eyeliner injection was studied by both light and electron microscopy . no pigment particles were observed within the epidermis , but rather there were coarse clumps of granular material in the dermis . apart from scattered mast cells , which occasionally contained fine granules , and apart from the macrophages which appeared to have ingested the pigment granules , no other acute and chronic inflammatory cells were found . electron microscopy demonstrated that while most of the granular material had been phagocytosed by macrophages , occasional granules were found in small dispersions within the cytoplasm of mast cells and fibroblasts of the dermis . minimal migration of pigment within macrophages occurred to locations around lymphatic channels and within the superficial orbicularis muscle connective tissue . 
pathogenesis of senile idiopathic macular holes [ letter ] 
the use of intravitreal thrombin to control hemorrhage during vitrectomy [ letter ] 
functional visual loss in children [ letter ] 
corneal changes in familial iris coloboma [ letter ] 
sarcoid cyclitis [ letter ] 
dysplastic nevus syndrome [ letter ] 
the measurement of clinical pain intensity : a comparison of six methods . the measurement of subjective pain intensity continues to be important to both researchers and clinicians . although several scales are currently used to assess the intensity construct , it remains unclear which of these provides the most precise , replicable , and predictively valid measure . five criteria for judging intensity scales have been considered in previous research : ease of administration of scoring ; relative rates of incorrect responding ; sensitivity as defined by the number of available response categories ; sensitivity as defined by statistical power ; and the magnitude of the relationship between each scale and a linear combination of pain intensity indices . in order to judge commonly used pain intensity measures , 75 chronic pain patients were asked to rate 4 kinds of pain ( present , least , most , and average ) using 6 scales . the utility and validity of the scales was judged using the criteria listed above . the results indicate that , for the present sample , the scales yield similar results in terms of the number of subjects who respond correctly to them and their predictive validity . however , when considering the remaining 3 criteria , the 101-point numerical rating scale appears to be the most practical index . 
desipramine enhances opiate postoperative analgesia . in a double-blind , placebo-controlled study the analgesic efficacy of the combination of a tricyclic antidepressant and morphine was investigated . one of two tricyclic antidepressants ( either amitriptyline , a relatively selective serotonin uptake inhibitor or desipramine , a relatively selective noradrenaline uptake inhibitor ) or a placebo , was given for 1 week prior to surgery , followed by a single postoperative dose of morphine . desipramine , but not amitriptyline , both increased and prolonged morphine analgesia . neither tricyclic antidepressant reduced dental postoperative pain in the absence of morphine . we propose that desipramine enhances opiate analgesia by enhancing a noradrenergic component that contributes to endogenous opioid-mediated analgesia systems . 
pain in early cancer of the lungs . 164 patients with early cancer of the lungs , i.e. , without extrathoracic spread or distant metastasis , were examined . subjective and objective characteristics of the pain were studied . a correlation was found between the location of the neoplasm , the location of the pain and the characteristics of the sensory changes . these observations may be a useful contribution to the early diagnosis of primary carcinomas of the lungs . 
pain and discomfort thresholds in late pregnancy . gintzler found an abrupt increase in pain thresholds in rats during the last days of gestation . while some data suggest a similar increase in pain thresholds for pregnant women , goolkasian and rimer have found , using signal detection procedures , that women are increasingly likely to report stimuli as painful during the last 2 weeks of pregnancy . the present studies were carried out to assess pain and discomfort thresholds in the last weeks of women 's pregnancies . in the first study , daily measures of the pressure-induced pain thresholds of 6 women who had spontaneous , vaginal births increased during the last 16 days of pregnancy and exceeded the 300 mm hg maximum stimulus pressure for the last 9 days of pregnancy . in the second study , the discomfort thresholds of 6 women were measured each day during the last 11 days of pregnancy before spontaneous vaginal births . the discomfort thresholds of the pregnant women were higher than those of 6 non-pregnant women whose discomfort thresholds were also measured each day . pregnant women 's thresholds increased before the onset of labor , while the discomfort thresholds of the non-pregnant women were unchanged during the course of the study . these results extend gintzler 's findings of reduced sensitivity to pain shortly before parturition . 
pain and ' hassles ' in the united states : findings of the nuprin pain report . a national survey of pain in the united states has been conducted , using a sample of 1254 persons 18 years of age or more , statistically constructed so as to permit projections to be made to the entire adult population of 174 million with a predicted accuracy of + / - 2-3 % . pain prevalence and severity , and its impact on work and other activities were obtained and correlated with demographic variables . this paper reports the portion of the study examining the association of pain with stress , daily hassles , measures of health locus of control , and various health habits . there was a very strong association between stress and pain and hassles and pain . the greater the stress and hassles , the greater the incidence , frequency and severity of all pains reported . those with high internal health locus of control are more likely to have healthy behavior , are less likely to have all kinds of pain , and have less severe pain . stress was voluntarily mentioned by respondents as a major cause of pain in headaches , backaches , stomach pains , and menstrual pains , but not for muscle , joint or dental pains . 
lack of opiate effects on cat c polymodal nociceptive fibers . the direct application of preservative-free morphine sulfate ( 1.5 % , 1 ml , 19.8 mumol ) or fentanyl ( 0.06 % , 1 ml , 1.07 mumol ) on the superficial radial or saphenous nerve of cats did not alter the response of single c polymodal nociceptive fibers ( pmns ) to noxious radiant heat stimulation of their peripheral receptive fields . intravenous administration of fentanyl ( 100 or 200 micrograms / kg , 0.179 or 0.358 mumol / kg ) also showed a similar lack of effect on the radiant heat evoked responses of single pmns . slight changes in the mean latencies following drug administration were recognized , which were not statistically significant . the use of morphine ( 1.5 % , 1 ml , 19.8 mumol ) with preservatives ( chlorbutanol 0.5 % and sodium bisulfite less than 0.1 % ) caused conduction block of pmns within 6-15 min . subsequent washout of the drug resulted in the return of the unitary discharges within 8 min . lidocaine ( 0.25 and 0.5 % , 10.7 mumol and 21.4 mumol ) caused conduction block within 5-18 min . these data support the classically held concept that opiates , in clinically useful concentrations , do not alter peripheral nerve function . 
topical application of colchicine , vinblastine and vincristine prevents strychnine-enhanced transsynaptic degeneration in the medullary dorsal horn following transection of the inferior alveolar nerve in adult rats . the effect of topical application of axonal transport blockers to the transected peripheral nerve was assessed by quantitating the strychnine-enhanced transsynaptic degeneration following transection of the inferior alveolar nerve in adult rats . systemic administration of strychnine ( 1 mg / kg / day ) for 7 days at the postoperational interval of 23 days proved to be suitable for quantitating the transsynaptic degeneration at the light microscopic level . when the proximal stump of transected nerve was treated with 2 % colchicine immediately after transection , 5.8 + / - 6.8 dark neurons in a single section of the medullary dorsal horn , ipsilateral to the nerve transection , were observed . following similar treatment with 0.4 % vinblastine and 0.2 % vincristine , 24.4 + / - 10.5 and 9.4 + / - 7.0 dark neurons were seen , respectively . when compared with 43.0 + / - 9.4 dark neurons , which were seen in animals without alkaloid treatment , colchicine , vinblastine and vincristine significantly reduced the transsynaptic degeneration by 86 , 43 , and 78 % , respectively . possible mechanisms involved in prevention of transsynaptic degeneration by the alkaloids are discussed . 
common orthopedic problems . 
philosophy of care . an accurate diagnosis is essential in managing musculoskeletal problems in children . active treatment is only occasionally necessary and should meet the criteria of being essential , effective , and prudent . 
the origin of prenatal and postnatal deformities . deformities are abnormalities of shape or form caused by abnormal or imbalanced mechanical forces . in prenatal deformation , most infants are intrinsically normal and the deformation results from extrinsic constraining forces . most prenatal deformities will resolve spontaneously or with the application of counteracting forces . in contrast , postnatal deformities result from either extrinsic pathologic processes , affecting the bones , nervous system , or muscle and resulting in the application of abnormal forces to bone , or normal forces acting on intrinsic diseases of bone . while many postnatal deformities can be contained or corrected by the application of counteracting forces , aggressive physical therapy , casting , or surgery is often required for correction . 
screening for congenital dislocation of the hip , scoliosis , and other abnormalities affecting the musculoskeletal system . the three main conditions affecting the musculoskeletal system currently being screened for are spina bifida cystica , congenital dislocation of the hip , and scoliosis . the techniques of screening are different for each : amniotic fluid analysis for spina bifida cystica , a manual physical examination for congenital dislocation of the hip , and a visual examination for scoliosis . properly time amniotic fluid analysis for alpha-fetoprotein is both a sensitive and specific test for neural tube defects . however , because of the low incidence of spina bifida cystica , this examination is justified only in high-risk pregnancies . maternal serum screening has not achieved widespread acceptance because of its lack of sensitivity and the low and apparently falling incidence of the deformity . the neonatal manual examination for congenital dislocation of the hip is now well established and widely practiced . almost all agree that the incidence of persistent congenital dislocation of the hip has been lowered as a result . however , the examination lacks both sensitivity and specificity because of intrinsic difficulties with the examination and the occurrence of late onset subluxation and dislocation . it is becoming apparent that congenital dislocation of the hip is a dynamic problem in the peri- and early neonatal period . repeated careful evaluation of the hips during infancy is necessary to make the diagnosis as early as possible . to further enhance early detection , it may be necessary to consider obtaining an anteroposterior pelvis radiograph at age 4 to 6 months in babies at high risk . the visual evaluation for scoliosis is a very sensitive test but lacks specificity . efforts are now being made to quantify visual screening techniques and thus decrease the numbers of false-positive examinations . 
limp . limping is never normal , and few parents tolerate the problem long before seeking medical consultation . however , the conditions that may produce a limp are legion and run the gamut from a stone in the shoe to the first manifestation of malignant neoplasm or chronic renal disease . as a consequence , one must have an orderly approach to diagnosis . many of the problems that cause the child to limp are presented , but this article is concerned with an overview of the problem , differential diagnosis , and suggested steps in evaluating the child who limps . 
growing pains . in the investigation of children with leg aches , it is essential to identify any underlying organic disease . growing pain is a poorly named , nebulous entity that can be diagnosed only by exclusion . the greatest diagnostic error is to make a diagnosis of growing pains while overlooking some serious underlying condition . 
torsional deformity . torsional deformity should be localized , quantitated , and usually managed by " observation , " an approach that is set forth in detail in this article . shoe modifications and daytime braces are inappropriate . night splints or operative procedures are rarely indicated . 
leg-length discrepancy . leg-length discrepancy is a condition associated with several factors that can affect growth rate , length itself , or both . treatment decisions depend on an accurate prediction of the discrepancy at maturity , which in turn depends on vigorous assessment of the growth pattern exhibited in the past . this article reviews all of these factors . 
foot pain in children . a general approach to the child with foot pain has been described . in that the pediatrician is so often the recipient of parent 's questions about children 's shoes , he or she should be aware of problems relating to poorly fitting shoes , probably the most common source of complaints of foot pain in children . with a systematic approach , the pediatrician is very capable of managing the majority of such complaints . 
foot deformities in infants and children . foot deformities may reflect a generalized disorder , especially a neurologic problem ; thus , the child should have a brief general examination . many infantile foot deformities , such as calcaneovalgus , are postural and self-correcting . metatarsus varus is not referred for treatment until age 2 months and then only if the deformity is moderate or severe . fixed forefoot equinus and heel varus characterize a clubfoot , which requires immediate treatment . corrective shoes are not advised as the primary treatment for metatarsus varus or clubfoot but often are prescribed to maintain the corrected position after serial casts . flexible flatfoot is a manifestation of a constitutional laxity affecting all ligaments and joints . the feet appear abnormal because of weight-bearing stresses . most children with flatfoot achieve a partial correction spontaneously . current research does not document that treatment with corrective shoes or inserts produces a result better than the partial correction that occurs naturally . 
bowlegs . the bowed appearance of the lower extremities is most often caused by internal rotation of the tibia in relationship to the femur . it is most commonly seen as the infant commences ambulation . this so-called physiologic bowing usually spontaneously resolves with growth and the maturity of the lower extremities . in older children , tibia varum may occur , in which there is a local arrest of growth on the posterior medial aspect of the tibia producing a true structural angulation . in certain long-standing metabolic or genetic bone disorders , the effects of weight bearing produce a true bowing of the extremities with changes about the hips , knees , and ankles . the most important aspect in the evaluation of a child with a bowed appearance of the lower extremities is to determine which conditions require aggressive treatment and which ones require simply giving the parents reassurance that the condition will spontaneously regress . 
knee problems in children . the paper describes physical examination of the knee and some of the knowledge functional anatomy necessary for diagnosis and management of knee disorders that occur in children . it includes brief descriptions of the diagnostic features of these conditions , as well as principles of conservative and surgical management . 
diseases of the developing hip joint . the best treatment for diseases of the hip can begin if one diagnoses the disorder as soon as possible after onset . in many cases , successful management of the disease will prevent permanent damage to the hip joint . if injury occurs to the developing hip joint , major hip surgery may be necessary in adult life . 
spinal deformity . spinal deformity is a relatively common disorder , particularly in teenage girls . early detection is possible by a simple , quick visual inspection that should be a standard part of the routine examination of all preteen and teenage patients . follow-up observation will reveal those curvatures that are progressive and permit orthotic treatment to prevent further increase in the deformity . spinal fusion offers correction and stabilization of more severe degrees of scoliosis . 
evaluating the child with back pain . this article stresses the fact that the pediatric patient who presents with back pain is very different from the adult patient with the same complaint . a child is much less likely to complain of symptoms when there is no organic cause for the complaint , and therefore his or her status should be evaluated carefully . when an immediate cause is not obvious , repeated examination should be performed because time may reveal a cause of the symptoms . 
orthopedic problems of the shoulder and neck . if one excludes trauma , problems of the neck and shoulder in children are relatively uncommon . still , the pediatrician or family practitioner should have sufficient familiarity to provide the family with appropriate counseling and referral . this article emphasizes the common problems , but also notes less common conditions that , if unrecognized , may have serious impact on the health and well-being of the child . 
hand injuries in children . hand injuries in children are seen frequently in the office and the emergency room . basic principles determine which fractures , tendon injuries , dislocations , nerve injuries , fingertip injuries , infections , and amputations can be treated by the primary physician and which should be referred to a specialist . 
fractures and sprains . everyone knows that some fractures in children have a great capacity for remodeling and require minimal care . likewise , everyone knows that some growth-plate injuries have great potential for disaster . the skill comes in knowing which is which . 
sports medicine . a product of the recent physical fitness boom has been an increased demand for better care of sport and recreational injuries . this article gives an overview of the care available for such injuries . in addition , it also cautions against the kind of care that will only produce noncompliance in the pediatric patient . 
bone and joint sepsis . 
prediction of the progression of chronic renal failure in children : are current models accurate ? mathematical models have been used since 1976 in an attempt to predict the progression of chronic renal failure . these models have used the serum creatinine level as either a reciprocal or logarithmic plot against time . the accuracy of such predictions are characterized by either a correlation coefficient ( r value ) or prediction error ( time at which dialysis was predicted minus time at which dialysis actually occurred ) . retrospectively , we analyzed 37 children who progressed to end-stage renal disease , grouped them by their respective primary diseases , and calculated both r values and prediction error for each individual and group . although r values for each group ( with the exception of patients less than 1 year of age ) were comparable , prediction errors were widely disparate among the various groupings . individuals within each of the groups had disparate values even though identical r values were present . these observations indicate that predictive models using serum creatinine levels are of limited clinical use and are least useful for patients younger than 1 year of age . 
violent death in children in a metropolitan county : changing patterns of homicide , 1958 to 1982. death rates from homicide in children younger than 15 years of age in the united states have increased during the last 30 years . previous studies have suggested a typology consisting of fatal child abuse in young children and community violence in older children . we reviewed the data from the cuyahoga county , ohio , coroner 's office pertaining to homicides in children less than 15 years of age between 1958 and 1982 and obtained similar findings . the homicide rates for city children increased from 1.1 to 6.7 / 100 , 000 in the first 20 years and then stabilized . nonwhite boys had the highest death rates except in one period . assailants were usually adolescent and young adult men of the same race ; however , 43 % of children less than 5 years of age were killed by women . the older the child , the more likely the homicide was to have been committed by a nonrelative , outside of the home , and with a firearm . overall , firearms are the leading cause of homicide ( 36.2 % ) . the temporal characteristics of child homicides are also described . 
selective screening device for the early detection of normal or delayed cognitive development in infants at risk for later mental retardation . the present study tested the predictive validity at 3 years of age of a screening device for the early identification of later cognitive delay . the screening device , administered between 3 and 7 months of age , is based on the infant 's differential fixation " to novel " over previously shown pictures . the sample was composed of 62 infants suspected to be at risk for later mental retardation . the prevalence of delayed cognitive development ( iq less than or equal to 70 ) at 3 years of age was 13 % . novelty preference scores correctly identified six of eight ( 75 % ) of the delayed children . the test identified 49 of 54 ( 91 % ) of the normal children . validity for predicting cognitive delay was 55 % . validity for the prediction of normality was 96 % . the screening device proved to be equally sensitive , specific , and valid when the sample was divided into infants born at term or born preterm . the results of the present study and of a previous study indicate that detection of cognitive delay based on early novelty preferences is as easily accomplished for infants who will later be mildly delayed ( iq scores 60 to 70 ) as it is for those who will later be severely delayed ( iq scores less than or equal to 50 ) . moreover , such results are in contrast to those obtained with conventional tests tapping sensorimotor development . 
pittsburgh insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus morbidity and mortality study : physical activity and diabetic complications . the long-term health consequences of chronic physical activity for patients with type i diabetes are unknown . in the current study , the association of physical activity to diabetic complications was assessed in 696 type i diabetic individuals diagnosed between 1950 and 1964. participation in team sports in high school or college was not associated with a decreased prevalence of severe retinopathy or blindness later in life . there was , however , a suggestion of a negative association between physical activity and both cardiovascular disease and overall mortality , ie , individuals who participated in team sports were somewhat less likely to report macrovascular disease at follow-up or to have died than nonparticipants . the relationship between physical activity and diabetic complications only appeared in male subjects . the results suggest that activity early in life by patients with type i diabetes does not appear to be associated with an adverse health effect and may , in fact , be beneficial . 
developmental approach to preventing the sexual abuse of children . child sexual abuse is a common and potentially damaging experience . preventing and detecting abuse should be a part of primary care pediatric practice . a protocol is presented the goal of which is to teach children and parents reasonable protective behaviors . 
toluidine blue in the detection of perineal lacerations in pediatric and adolescent sexual abuse victims . posterior fourchette lacerations are suggestive of sexual assault , and toluidine blue dye has increased the detection of these lacerations in adult rape victims . this study investigated the use of toluidine blue dye in the pediatric ( 0 to 10 years ) and adolescent ( 11 to 18 years ) patients to detect posterior fourchette lacerations in sexually abused and control populations . application of toluidine blue dye increased the detection rate of posterior fourchette lacerations from 4 % ( 1 / 25 ) to 28 % ( 7 / 25 ) ( p less than .05 , fisher exact test ) in adolescent sexually abused patients and from 16.5 % ( 4 / 24 ) to 33 % ( 8 / 24 ) ( p = .318 , fisher exact test ) in pediatric sexually abused patients . posterior fourchette lacerations occurred with the same frequency in sexually abused adolescents and sexually active controls adolescents . in the pediatric aged population , 33 % of the sexually abused group had lacerations detected , whereas none of the control patients had lacerations . the presence of posterior fourchette lacerations in the pediatric aged patient is strongly suggestive of sexual abuse . toluidine blue increases the detection of posterior fourchette lacerations in children and adolescents ( p less than .001 , fisher exact test ) . the application of toluidine blue dye to highlight posterior fourchette lacerations is an important addition to tools already used in the evaluation of the sexually abused patient . 
sudden child death and ' healthy ' affected family members with medium-chain acyl-coenzyme a dehydrogenase deficiency . a family is described in which the father and three ( and probably all four ) of his children had a decreased capacity for the oxidation of medium-chain fatty acids . one of the children suddenly died at the age of 16 months following an episode of a rapidly deteriorating reye syndrome-like illness with hypoketotic hypoglycemia and dicarboxylic aciduria , but without any previous alarming symptoms . the eldest sibling had died at the age of 19 months under similar conditions . the other family members had always been healthy . on fasting , all affected family members accumulated in their plasma the medium-chain fatty acids octanoic , decanoic , and cis-4-decenoic acids . their urinary organic acid excretion profile could be characterized as " dicarboxylic aciduria . " a deficiency of medium-chain acyl-coenzyme a dehydrogenase was demonstrated in a postmortem liver sample of the index patient . cultured fibroblasts from the father and the two healthy children had a decreased rate of [ 14c ] octanoate oxidation . it is suggested that a deficiency of medium-chain acyl-coenzyme a dehydrogenase may lead to a life-threatening illness when other complicating factors such as diarrhea and vomiting result in an abnormal depletion of the body 's glycogen stores . careful monitoring of at-risk patients during a minor illness is necessary . 
microcephaly and congenital cytomegalovirus infection : a combined prospective and retrospective study of a swedish infant population . microcephaly and its etiology were studied in an unselected swedish urban infant population . virtually , all live-born infants ( 14 , 724 ) born between october 1977 and december 1983 in the city of malmo , sweden , were included in the study . special attention was given to the role of congenital infections , particularly to cytomegalovirus infection . the infant population was studied from two points of view . one part of the study was prospective and based on regular cytomegalovirus isolation in urine within the first week of life . about 80 % of the newborns were adequately studied by this test . none of 56 infants shown to be cytomegalovirus excreters ( congenitally infected ) and followed up were born with or developed microcephaly ( head circumference smaller than 3 sd below the mean for age and sex ) during the first 1 to 7 years of life . however , two of the 56 infants had a head circumference of -2 sd . in the beginning of 1985 , an inventory was made of the presence of symptomatic microcephaly in the above mentioned population still living in the city or deceased there . of about 10 , 000 such children , 12 were found to have symptomatic microcephaly . by studies of personal , clinical , and laboratory data and by retrospective serologic studies of frozen pre- and postconceptional maternal sera , a possible explanation or a recognized syndrome was obtained in ten of the 12 cases . in one of them , the mother had a primary cytomegalovirus infection , possibly in early pregnancy . although the infant had symptoms compatible with a congenital infection , no laboratory evidence of transmitted infection was found . in no case were congenital rubella virus or toxoplasma gondii infections suspected . 
prevalence of positive epicutaneous tests among infants , children , and adolescents . we studied 314 otherwise healthy children younger than 18 years of age with epicutaneous testing , and found that 20 % of those tested had at least one positive epicutaneous test result . neomycin , nickel , and potassium dichromate were the most prevalent allergens detected in our study group . we found that sensitization occurred at less than 5 years of age for all but fragrance allergens . aluminum chambers and the american academy of dermatology patch test kit were found to be safe for use in infants , children , and adolescents . 
sensitivity of the denver developmental screening test in speech and language screening . a retrospective study was undertaken to determine whether the denver developmental screening test ( ddst ) language sector is a sensitive screen of speech and language development . seventy-one children between 18 and 66 months of age with suspected developmental problems were referred to screening clinics conducted by a child evaluation team . each child was screened using the ddst ( revised ) and another screening measure of speech and language development . statistically significant differences were found between the ddst language sector and the speech-language screening in identification of expressive language and articulation problems . no significant difference was found with receptive language . the ddst failed to identify more than one half of the children with expressive language and / or articulation problems . these results demonstrate that the ddst may fail to identify children with speech and language impairment . professionals involved in developmental screening need to be advised of alternative speech and language screening measures . 
child restraint law effects on motor vehicle accident fatalities and injuries : the new mexico experience . the new mexico state legislature passed a child restraint law applicable to children less than 5 years of age that became effective in june 1983. to evaluate the effectiveness of this law , we analyzed traffic accident data for new mexico from january 1981 through september 1984. during this period , there were 20 , 972 children younger than 5 years of age in motor vehicle accidents . restraint usage increased for this age group from a low of about 10 % in 1981 to more than 40 % in 1984 ( p less than 10 ( -6 ) ) . unrestrained children younger than 5 years of age were five times more likely to be killed and two times more likely to be injured than restrained children . analysis of motor vehicle accident fatality and injury rates pre- and post-law revealed a 33 % reduction in motor vehicle accident fatality rates and a 12.6 % reduction in nonfatal injury rates for children younger than 5 years . we conclude that child restraint devices are effective in reducing motor vehicle accident fatalities and injuries in young children and the child restraint law has been effective in increasing child restraint usage and in reducing childhood death and injury in new mexico . 
expired ipecac syrup efficacy . a controlled prospective study to evaluate the efficacy of expired ipecac syrup was conducted at two regional poison control centers in new england . during a 6-month period , 200 study patients treated with expired ipecac syrup and 200 control patients treated with unexpired ipecac syrup were evaluated . there were no statistical differences between the control and study groups in patient characteristics ( age and sex ) and product characteristics ( general class , emetic potential , pretreatment , previously opened bottles , and manufacturer ) . in both control and study groups , emesis occurred in 100 % of cases with 90 % of patients vomiting with the first dose . the mean time to emesis was 24.7 minutes and 24.8 minutes in the study and control groups , respectively . expired preparations ranged from 1 month to greater than 4 years postexpiration , with the duration of expiration not altering the mean time to emesis . mean time to emesis between the two groups was also not affected by manufacturer , pretreatment with milk , or whether the ipecac syrup bottle was previously opened . we conclude that expired ipecac syrup ( up to 4 years postexpiration date ) is an effective emetic . 
osteoarticular infections in children with sickle cell disease . thirteen children with sickle cell disease were identified as having 14 episodes of osteoarticular infection in a review of 27 years ' experience . there were eight episodes of osteomyelitis or osteoarthritis and six of suppurative arthritis alone . the etiologic agents in osteomyelitis or osteoarthritis were salmonella sp in four cases , escherichia coli in one , enterobacter aerogenes in one , staphylococcus aureus in one , and haemophilus influenzae type b in one . five of the cases with infection limited to the joint were caused by streptococcus pneumoniae ; the sixth was caused by h influenzae type b . fever ( greater than or equal to 38.3 degrees c ) was present in all children and the temperature was in excess of 39 degrees c in 62 % . the mean duration of pain before admission was 4.5 days . the initial total white blood cell count ranged from 5 , 200 to 29 , 700 / microl ( mean 19 , 436 / microl ) and the total band neutrophil count ranged from 0 to 5 , 103 / microl ( mean 1 , 660 / microl ) . the esr was greater than 20 mm / h in eight of the ten patients who were tested . management consisted of antibiotic therapy in all . needle aspiration was performed in two patients with osteomyelitis and in three with suppurative arthritis . incision and drainage was performed in two cases of osteomyelitis and in four with suppurative arthritis . the outcome was satisfactory in all except one patient who had several complications as a consequence of femoral neck osteomyelitis . recurrence was reported in only one patient . 
polymicrobial bacterial sepsis and defective neutrophil chemotaxis in an infant with cystic fibrosis . a 4 1 / 2-month-old , white girl was admitted to the hospital with respiratory distress and persistent polymicrobial bacteremia . cystic fibrosis associated with malnutrition and a transient defect in peripheral neutrophil chemotaxis was diagnosed . this remarkable combination of presenting features in a patient with cystic fibrosis is the focus of this case report . 
individualized behavioral and environmental care for the very low birth weight preterm infant at high risk for bronchopulmonary dysplasia : neonatal intensive care unit and developmental outcome . we hypothesize that the respiratory and functional states of the very low birth weight infant with bronchopulmonary dysplasia can be improved in the neonatal intensive care unit by prevention of inappropriate sensory input . to test this hypothesis , we developed for preterm newborns a behavior observation method that catalogues specific reaction patterns according to putative stress and relaxation behaviors . we then collected behavioral information and heart rate , respiratory rate , and transcutaneous po2 readings before , during , and after routine care-giving interventions . eight control and eight experimental infants were selected for study based on the following criteria : birth weight less than 1 , 250 g , gestational age less than 28 weeks , on the respirator greater than 24 hours in first 48 hours of life at greater than or equal to 0.60 fio2 for more than two hours during first 48 hours of life . additionally , the two groups were comparable on other medical and demographic variables , including severity of respiratory status for the first ten days and incidence of intraventricular hemorrhage , patent ductus arteriosus , and socioeconomic status . systematic observations were conducted on days 10 , 20 , and 30 after birth and at 36 and 40 weeks postconception . for the intervention infants , our observations were discussed with the infants ' primary nurses , and individualized modifications for each infant 's care plan were implemented based on these observations . experimental infants showed significantly briefer stays on the respirator ( p less than .01 ) and in increased fio2 ( p less than .05 ) . their feeding behavior was normalized significantly earlier ( p less than .01 ) . experimental infants also showed significantly better behavioral regulation scores at 1 month after their mothers ' estimated dates of confinement ( post-edc ) , as measured with the assessment of preterm infants ' behavior , significantly better mental and psychomotor developmental indices at 3 , 6 , and 9 months post-edc , as measured with the bayley scales of infant development , and significantly better behavioral regulation scores at 9 months post-edc , as measured in a videotaped play observation . measurements of weight , height , and head circumference at 3 , 6 , and 9 months post-edc showed no differences . all assessments were performed by one of two trained testers not familiar with the goals of the study or the group status of the infant . these results support the hypothesis that very low birth weight preterm babies profit significantly both medically and developmentally from individualized behavioral care in the neonatal intensive care unit . 
behavior abnormalities and poor school performance due to oral theophylline use . studies evaluating adverse effects of oral theophylline on learning and behavior have been performed on children with asthma receiving long-term theophylline therapy . to further differentiate the effects of asthma itself from the drugs used , we evaluated 20 asthmatic children ( 6 to 12 years of age ) who had not received oral bronchodilators for at least 6 months . a double blind , placebo-controlled , parallel format was used with a 4-week theophylline or placebo period preceded by a 2-week baseline . theophylline serum levels were maintained between 10 to 20 micrograms / ml . during baseline and treatment periods , the child 's home and school behavior / performance were monitored independently by their parents and teachers using standardized report forms . a battery of psychologic tests was administered at the end of baseline and treatment periods . seven children receiving theophylline were noted to have a change in school behavior and / or performance during their 4 weeks on drug compared to baseline , whereas none of the children receiving placebo were noted to be different ( p = .004 ) . thus , the short-term administration of theophylline to asymptomatic asthmatic children not receiving oral bronchodilators can adversely affect school performance and behavior . because this population represents the majority of asthmatic children , one needs to use theophylline cautiously in this age group , monitor school performance closely , or seek other treatment modalities . 
idiopathic hypoparathyroidism : a case study on the interactions between exogenous parathyroid hormone infusion and 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d . 
infant mortality and the american academy of pediatrics . 
low birth weight , vital records , and infant mortality . 
accumulating evidence : using meta-analysis to carry out research reviews in pediatrics . 
american academy of pediatrics committee on fetus and newborn : use and abuse of the apgar score . 
american academy of pediatrics committee on nutrition : aluminum toxicity in infants and children . 
american academy of pediatrics task force on infant mortality : statement on infant mortality . 
nuclear accident at chernobyl : implications for pediatricians [ letter ] 
necrotizing tracheobronchitis [ letter ] 
alcohol , drugs , and head injury [ letter ] 
all-terrain vehicles--who says four-wheelers are safer ? [ letter ] 
neuroblastoma in duchenne muscular dystrophy [ letter ] [ published erratum appears in pediatrics 1987 may ; 79 ( 5 ) : 789 ] 
retinopathy of prematurity and iron : a modification of the oxygen hypothesis [ letter ] 
questioning role of hypochloremia in bronchopulmonary dysplasia [ letter ] 
urine specific gravity as an indicator of neonatal necrotizing enterocolitis [ letter ] 
super effective diaper can cause confusion [ letter ] 
annual summary of vital statistics--1985 . data for this article , as in previous reports , are drawn principally from monthly vital statistics report , published by the national center for health statistics ( nchs ) . the international data come from the demographic yearbook and the quarterly population and vital statistics reports , both published by the statistical office of the united nations , which has also been kind enough to provide directly more recent data . except for mortality data by cause and age , which are based on a 10 % sample , all the us data for 1984 are estimates by place of occurrence , based upon a count of certificates received in state offices between two dates , 1 month apart , regardless of when the event occurred . experience has shown that for the country as a whole the estimates , with few exceptions , are close to the subsequent final figures . there are , however , considerable variations in some states , particularly in comparing data by place of occurrence and place of residence . state information should be interpreted cautiously . 
swelling of the knee . 
an improved technique for femoral venosection in children . 
pediatrics and professional liability . 
preventive measures to limit legal liability in pediatric emergencies : an analysis through cases concerning failure to diagnose meningitis . 
proceedings of the first national conference on pediatric trauma . boston , september 26-27 , 1985. 
can medicaid format alter emergency department utilization patterns ? emergency department utilization by recipients of aid to families with dependent children ( afdc ) in a metropolitan children 's hospital was monitored during a 36-month period ( july 1982 to june 1985 ) . there were 92 , 495 emergency department visits recorded in this interval . during 12 months of this period ( july 1983 to june 1984 ) a pilot program ( citicare ) for afdc recipients requiring prior authorization by the primary care physician for emergency department utilization was in effect . emergency department census dropped dramatically and abruptly upon initiation of this program . annual census for the targeted years reveals : 35 , 704 visits for the 12 months preceding this novel program , 25 , 543 visits for the 12 months of the program , and 31 , 248 visits for the 12 months following the pilot program . total emergency department census was decreased by 23 % and medical assistance utilization was decreased by 46 % during the citicare program . during the target period , self-pay clients decreased by 25 % , and other categories ( champus , hill-burton , crippled children 's commission , etc . ) increased by 6 % . there was no corresponding decline in the number of patients admitted to the hospital through the emergency department during the monitoring period with 3 , 545 , 3 , 555 , and 3 , 922 annualized admissions respectively , for the targeted 12-month periods . these data suggest that the format of medicaid programs can dramatically alter the utilization of emergency department services . furthermore , the primary impact of this specific program was to decrease inappropriate emergency department use . 
use of thermogram in detection of meningitis . thermography of the lumbar area was performed on 169 patients under two years of age . twenty-four percent ( 21 / 87 ) of afebrile patients and nine percent ( 6 / 66 ) of febrile patients without meningitis had increased lumbar heat ( false-positive ) . sixteen patients with a cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis and / or pathogens present demonstrated increased heat in the lumbar area . clinical evaluation at a level of greater than 2 ( 0-10 ) had a sensitivity of 100 % and a specificity of 80 % . thermographic evaluation at a grade of 6 or higher ( 0-10 ) for the presence of midline heat had a sensitivity of 100 % and a specificity of 92 % . thermography of the lumbar area may be a useful clinical adjunct to screen for meningitis . 
current methods of training residents to manage pediatric cardiopulmonary arrests . pediatric residency training programs were surveyed to assess current methods of educating house staff to manage pediatric cardiopulmonary resuscitations . of the 155 programs responding , 96 % provide basic life support training , while 79 % offer advanced cardiac life support training , but only 30 % provide ongoing education in the form of mock arrests . in general , the availability of the various forms of resuscitation management instruction was not related to either program size or institution needs . the system of training pediatric residents to manage pediatric cardiopulmonary resuscitations at the johns hopkins hospital is outlined . 
febrile seizures : a protocol for emergency management . 
cough variant asthma [ published erratum appears in pediatr emerg care 1987 mar ; 3 ( 1 ) : 9 ] in recent years it has become increasingly apparent that cough is frequently the sign of airway hyperreactivity . while the association between cough and wheezing is well recognized in asthmatics , cough may be the only clinical manifestation of this problem . emergency physicians frequently have occasion to evaluate the coughing patient . awareness of this clinical entity should facilitate appropriate evaluation , management , and referral of these patients . 
comparative flow rates for small bore peripheral intravenous catheters . the ability to deliver fluid to the pediatric patient is a function of many variables . in addition to patient-specific factors such as patient age , size , and weight , and venous size , number , and character , there exist further universal limitations inherent in the equipment which is utilized . mechanical variables include cannula number , length , brand , and gauge ; tubing length , band , style , and gauge ; use of extensions ; and presence and type of pressure system . this study evaluated a few of these variables . the flow rates were determined for 10 brands of 20- , 22- , and 24-gauge peripheral intravenous catheters . the catheter brands were divided into two groups , slow or faster . the differences in flow between the two categories were statistically significant . the disparities between the slowest and most rapid catheters of the same gauge were only 6.6 , 5.4 , and 7.7 ml / min for the 20 , 22 , and 24 gauges , respectively . the tubing apparatus was also a significant determinant of flow . the addition of any extensions further decreased flow . the magnitude of this slowing was a function of both the tubing and the type of extension . 
presentation and evaluation of sexual misuse in the emergency department . children who have been sexually abused develop a variety of emotional and physical complaints , often unrelated to the genital area . emergency department records of children diagnosed as being sexually abused were reviewed for the period covering january 1984 through june 1985. of 26 , 000 patients seen , 300 cases of sexual abuse were identified . of these , 57 were patients who presented with initial complaints other than sexual abuse . the data were analyzed for age , sex , chief complaint , time of presentation , physical findings , and person accompanying the child . the most common presenting complaints of these 57 patients were abdominal pain ( 26 % ) and vaginal symptoms ( 26 % ) the latter included pruritus , discharge , and bleeding . other complaints included rectal bleeding or constipation ( 9 % ) , chronic urinary tract infection ( 5 % ) , straddle injury ( 4 % ) , and suicide attempt ( 2 % ) . the remaining 26 % included fever , respiratory infections , sore throat , asthma , bronchitis , obesity , mastoiditis , and weight loss . because resident physicians are instructed to conduct complete anal and genital examinations on all patients , sexual misuse was often diagnosed with seemingly unrelated complaints . a protocol developed for use in the emergency department is described . 
pediatric patients in a regional burn center . because scald burns are reported to be the leading cause of burn injuries to children , little is written about other etiologies of burn injury in the pediatric literature . to test the hypothesis that burns from other etiologies are more serious and require longer hospitalizations than scald burns , a retrospective chart review was undertaken . the charts of all patients less than 16 years of age who were admitted to harborview medical center burn unit in the years 1979 to 1984 were reviewed . four hundred sixty-four children were admitted to the regional burn center during that time . we found that children under four years of age are at greatest risk for being hospitalized for thermal injury , that the burn most commonly occurs inside the home between 6 pm and midnight , and that scalds are the most common etiology for thermal injuries in children ( 54 % ) . however , 46 % of the burns resulting in admission to our burn center were from etiologies other than scald injury . there was no significant correlation between etiology of the burns and length of hospital stay , rate of infection , or need for excision and grafting . thermal injuries to children from any etiology are serious ; pediatric health care providers should be aware that children may be burned in a variety of ways and should direct some of their well-child visit time to the topic of burn prevention in the home . 
endotracheal administration of epinephrine and atropine . a case history of a seven-month-old girl arriving at the emergency department in cardiac arrest from an inhalation injury without venous access is described . the patient was resuscitated with endotracheal administration of epinephrine and atropine . a review of the literature of endotracheal administration of medications in pediatrics subsequently follows . 
benign acute childhood myositis : an unusual cause of refusal to walk . 
primary amebic meningoencephalitis . 
an unusual case of cyproheptadine ( periactin ) overdose in an adolescent female . a 13-year-old female ingested an acute overdose of cyproheptadine hydrochloride ( periactin ) and presented for treatment . she manifested all the classic signs and symptoms of an acute antihistamine overdose , including psychosis , except for miotic , minimally reactive pupils . the patient was supportively managed . all sequelae of the ingestion resolved within four days , and the child was released from the hospital . we discuss the unusual presentation of miotic pupils in an acute cyproheptadine overdose . 
electrical and lightning injuries in children . 
which laboratory tests should be performed on children with apparent febrile convulsions ? an analysis and review of the literature . there exist wide variations among clinicians as to management of the child who presents with the first febrile convulsion . in 1980 , the american academy of pediatrics issued a consensus statement on febrile convulsions which included recommendations for initial management . multiple studies have also addressed this topic . from these studies , guidelines for management have been drawn . review of these studies reveals little scientific support for current management strategies . the decision to perform lumbar puncture is analyzed as an example of the practical limits of clinical investigations . reliance upon consensus clinical opinion is therefore recommended . 
emergency physician responsibility for the interpretation of x-rays . 
fellowship training in pediatric emergency care [ letter ] 
acute suppurative thyroiditis in a 3-year-old boy . a previously healthy 3-year-old boy was referred because of persistent fever and anterior neck swelling and pain . the diagnosis of a mixed bacterial abscess of the thyroid gland was made . incision and drainage were performed , and fever abated immediately . antibiotic therapy was given in the hospital and for ten days after discharge . acute suppurative thyroiditis is a rarely encountered infection . the majority of cases reported in the recent literature are from japan . the case presented here , from the united states , demonstrates the difficulty that can be encountered in diagnosing this type of thyroiditis . 
cutaneous and subcutaneous metastases of lung cancer . clinical characteristics . 
a point-source epidemic of leptospirosis . description of cases , cause , and prevention . leptospirosis is a zoonotic disease that consists of fever , headache , myalgias , and multiple organ involvement , has varying clinical severity and morbidity , and can occur in epidemic form . diagnosis is based on culture or serologic demonstration of recent infection . there is evidence that doxycycline therapy started early in the course of the disease favorably affects duration and severity . antibiotic therapy is often initiated because of a strong suspicion of the disease , before bacteriologic or serologic confirmation of the diagnosis is completed . public health measures play an important role in minimizing the incidence of leptospirosis . 
postpartum thyroiditis in a 20-year-old woman . 
stroke rehabilitation . a problem-oriented approach . optimal rehabilitation of stroke disability depends on a detailed analysis of neurologic impairments , associated medical conditions , psychosocial status , activities of daily living , and environmental barriers . such analysis will permit design of the most appropriate management program , aimed at minimizing disability , maximizing function , and returning the stroke patient to a gratifying existence in spite of residual impairment and disability . 
first aid for snakebite [ letter ] 
arthritis rehabilitation . a multifaceted process . rehabilitation of the patient with arthritis is a multifaceted process that should always involve patient , family , and a wide variety of healthcare professionals and community organizations . the optimal goal is to improve the patient 's functional performance . success depends on correct identification of functionally limiting problems . 
cervical and lumbopelvic traction . to stretch or not to stretch . cervical traction and lumbopelvic traction are commonly prescribed for relief of neck pain and low back pain , respectively . scientific validation of efficacy is scant , but considerable empirical benefit has been observed . in the absence of contraindications and with appropriate application , cervical and lumbopelvic traction may be used to provide symptomatic relief of neck and low back pain . 
antithrombotic therapy for cerebrovascular disease . prevention and treatment of stroke . antithrombotic therapy in prevention and management of stroke is evolving rapidly as new clinical data better define indications . stroke is a syndrome with several pathophysiologic bases , not one clinical entity . optimal use of medical and surgical therapy requires definition of the specific mechanism of brain ischemia in the individual patient . 
are the holidays hazardous to your patients ' health ? [ editorial ] 
drug abuse in sports . a physician 's view . 
current issues in transfusion therapy . 1. risks of infection . parasitic , bacterial , and viral infections may all be associated with transfusion of whole blood and components , including packed red blood cells , platelets , fresh-frozen plasma , and cryoprecipitate . proper collection and storage techniques , careful donor selection , and laboratory screening of donor blood for evidence of syphilis , hepatitis b , and human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection form the basis for prevention of transfusion-transmitted infections . viral hepatitis , notably non-a non-b hepatitis , is the most frequent infectious risk of transfusion in the united states today . the risk of hiv infection is very low because of voluntary donor self-deferral and screening of donated blood for evidence of the infection . 
vaginal discharge . its causes and cures . vaginal discharge is a common complaint , the cause of which can be diagnosed on the basis of the distinguishing characteristics of the fluid itself , the course and symptoms of the infection , and the results of a few simple office laboratory tests . accurate diagnosis is important because treatment can then be selected specifically rather than empirically . optimal treatment differs with each of the four major causative agents : candida , gardnerella , trichomonas , and chlamydia . prompt eradication of the infection promotes patient and public health . 
influenza update . 
sam holzman . 
medical emergencies during air travel . aircraft resources and guidelines for ' good samaritan ' physicians . 
health-risk appraisal . helping patients predict and prevent health problems . health-risk appraisals ( hras ) are self-scored questionnaires or computer programs that use demographic and risk-factor data to estimate the most likely causes of death and to provide guidance on how to reduce risk of death . the clinical usefulness of hras lies in their ability to motivate patients to modify negative habits and lifestyles . still very much in a developmental stage , hras are not substitutes for preventive health examinations and are best used in conjunction with ongoing physician-supervised health-promotion and disease-prevention efforts . 
neurologic injuries from winter sporting accidents . how they happen and how to minimize them . 
functional anatomy of the shoulder complex . the shoulder complex , together with other joint and muscle mechanisms of the upper limb , primarily is concerned with the ability to place and control the position of the hand in the visual work space in front of the body . the shoulder mechanism provides the upper limb with a range of motion exceeding that of any other joint mechanism . the placement of the hand is determined by four components of the shoulder complex : the glenohumeral , acromioclavicular , and sternoclavicular joints and the scapulothoracic gliding mechanism . the clavicular joints permit the scapula to move against the chest wall during movements of the arm , allowing the glenoid fossa to follow the head of the humerus , and thus contribute significantly to total arm movement . the functional interrelationships between the glenohumeral , scapulothoracic , and clavicular joint mechanisms are critical in providing a full , functional rom . any pathological condition of any one of these mechanisms will disturb upper limb function . the ligamentous and periarticular structures of the shoulder complex combine in maintaining the joint relationships , withstanding the forces applied to the joint surfaces , and stabilizing the dependent limb . 
examination of the shoulder complex . this article presents a protocol for the examination of the shoulder complex . the examination is divided into subjective and objective components . a primary focus of this article is on the functional portion of the objective examination and its interpretation . the functional examination consists of active and passive range-of-motion tests , accessory mobility tests , resisted tests , and palpation . this approach enables the examiner to classify movement disorders of the shoulder complex into dysfunctions of the noncontractile tissues and of the contractile tissues . factors that enable the examiner to determine the severity of a pathological condition or to identify stages of the healing process are discussed . this information will assist the physical therapist in establishing treatment goals and in selecting appropriate strategies of therapeutic intervention . 
frozen shoulder . widespread use of the label " frozen shoulder " as a diagnosis for any stiff and painful shoulder condition has led to its becoming a rather meaningless , catchall term . in addition to confounding both the lay public and health care professionals , this indiscriminate labeling may prevent a patient from receiving appropriate treatment . in this article , i define frozen shoulder and review its pathologic and etiologic factors , epidemiology , natural history , and diagnosis . i present this information in correlation with an examination process to assist physical therapists in identifying suspected cases of frozen shoulder . i also present the current options for treatment , including physical therapy management with physical agents and exercise . 
hemiplegic shoulder pain . this article reviews the literature relevant to the possible causes , prevention , and treatment of hemiplegic shoulder pain . shoulder pain and stiffness impede the rehabilitation of patients with hemiplegia . the cause of this complication is unknown , but it may be related to the severity of neurological deficits , preexisting or posthemiplegic soft tissue injury , subluxation , brachial plexus injury , or shoulder-hand syndrome . shoulder pain may be preventable if risk factors can be identified and appropriate prophylaxis applied . resolution of the condition depends on diagnosis and effective treatment at the onset of the symptoms . more clinical research is needed to clarify the cause of hemiplegic shoulder pain and to document the efficacy of prophylactic and treatment methods . 
neurovascular entrapment in the regions of the shoulder and posterior triangle of the neck . the purpose of this article is to provide information that facilitates the critical evaluation of the thoracic outlet syndrome and other nerve entrapment syndromes in the regions of the posterior cervical triangle and the shoulder . general comments regarding entrapment are followed by discussions of specific entrapment sites . each discussion stresses the anatomic view and includes comments on causes , symptoms , diagnostic tests , and management . 
mechanisms of shoulder injuries . in this article , we discuss our review of 284 shoulder injuries that were seen and treated arthroscopically during a five-year period . all of the injuries were related to the athletes ' particular sport . we describe the biomechanical basis for these injuries and review the data gathered on the forces involved in the act of throwing . 
electromyography and motion analysis of the upper extremity in sports . this article reviews the results of studies using electromyographic recordings to determine muscle function during athletic activities . electromyographic recordings were synchronized with high-speed film to provide information on shoulder muscle firing patterns during baseball pitching , swimming , tennis , and golf . the information obtained about the contributions of specific muscles during these activities may be useful in developing effective injury prevention and rehabilitation strategies . 
computer communications . correlation , regression , and residuals : a graphical representation ( for the ibm , pc or compatible ) . 
cleft palate repair by double opposing z-plasty . in an attempt to improve speech results following palate repair while allowing adequate maxillary growth , a palatoplasty using two opposing z-plasties of the soft palate , one of the oral and one of the nasal layers , has been used in 22 infants . eight patients had unilateral cleft lip and palate , eight had bilateral cleft lip and palate , and six had cleft palate . the z-plasties facilitate effective dissection and redirection of the palatal muscles to produce an overlapping muscle sling and lengthen the velum without using tissue from the hard palate , which permits hard palate closure without pushback or lateral relaxing incisions . of the 20 children old enough for speech evaluation , 18 have no velopharyngeal insufficiency . two have very mild velopharyngeal insufficiency . none has required a pharyngeal flap . 
miniplate fixation of le fort i osteotomies . the use of rigid , internal , three-dimensional fixation using vitallium bone plates in 28 consecutive le fort i osteotomies is presented . a minimum follow-up period of 6 months was required for inclusion in this patient group . maxillary movements included advancements ( 17 ) , intrusions ( 9 ) , lengthenings ( 5 ) , and retrusions ( 2 ) . the majority of maxillae were moved in more than one plane of space . technical details , complications , and relapse potential are discussed . advantages of rigid plate fixation include marked reductions in the length of intermaxillary fixation with light training elastics only . immediate postoperative airway problems are thereby eliminated . six months of follow-up would appear to indicate a low potential for osseous relapse when compared to wire osteosynthesis , regardless of the direction of maxillary movement . the major disadvantage is the decreased ability of postoperative orthodontics to move dento-osseous segments if skeletal occlusal disharmony persists postoperatively . for this reason , close attention to preoperative planning and operative technique is critical for the success of this fixation method . 
remodeling of the temporomandibular joint disk and posterior attachment in disk displacement specimens in relation to glycosaminoglycan content . in meniscus displacement pathosis , the anterior part of the posterior attachment is subjected to abnormal compressive loading . this study presents evidence that the loaded tissue is capable of producing glycosaminoglycans of the sort that are found in the disk and articular surfaces of the articular eminence and mandibular condyle . 
quantitative analysis of blood and fat in suction lipectomy aspirates . this study of suction lipectomy aspirates from 15 consecutive patients was undertaken to biochemically quantitate the blood-to-fat ratios of the aspirates . a wide variation in the blood-to-fat ratios ( 8 to 54 percent ) was noted , but the authors failed to demonstrate any relationship between the blood-to-fat ratios and the suction lipectomy operative site . prophylactic measures to allow treatment of patients in a consistently safe manner include carefully screening of patients to exclude those with bleeding disorders or significant illnesses , perioperative oral iron therapy , infiltrating the operation site with a dilute epinephrine solution , hydrating the patients adequately perioperatively , using smaller-diameter cannulas for the aspiration , minimizing aspiration once the aspirate turns grossly bloody , and limiting the aspirate to a volume of less than 1750 ml for any operative procedure . 
reduction mammaplasty : a comparison between the robbins and pontes techniques . the purpose of this paper is to propose a practical classification of mammary hypertrophy and compare perioperative factors in two types of reduction mammaplasty : the pontes and robbins techniques . in a series of 51 patients , the advantages and disadvantages of each method are compared and discussed . the pontes method appears to be better for the low-volume and ptotic ( type ii and iii ) breast , whereas the robbins technique has a more universal application . 
clinical applications of the extended deep inferior epigastric flap . the extended deep inferior epigastric flap , described by taylor et al . in 1983 , consists of the lower portion of the rectus abdominis muscle and a superolateral fasciocutaneous extension based on the periumbilical perforators . we have used this flap four times to close large defects of the abdomen , groin , and thigh and twice as a free flap to close wounds of the head and leg . there were no ischemic complications , and there was uncomplicated wound healing in the recipient and in the donor wounds . we recommend this highly versatile and reliable flap as one to be considered early in planning the closure of large wounds . 
target-specific nerve regeneration through a nerve guide in the rat . nerve regeneration across a gap in peripheral nerve has been achieved through various nonneural nerve guides in both lower and primate species . this technique can only be useful if the regenerated nerve cable grows specifically to and reinnervates the appropriate distal target . in this study , the proximal peroneal fascicle of rat sciatic nerve was inserted into the proximal limb of a y-shaped nerve guide . distal peroneal and tibial fascicles were placed within the two distal limbs of the same y . the proximal peroneal nerve grew preferentially by a 2 : 1 ratio to the appropriate distal peroneal fascicle suggesting that target-specific reinnervation is possible through a nerve guide . 
the nature and extent of histopathologic injury in human avulsed arteries and veins and in experimentally avulsed monkey arteries . to determine the end point of histopathologic damage in avulsed arteries , the forearm arteries of five monkeys being sacrificed were avulsed longitudinally and samples of proximal and distal arteries prepared for light microscopy and transmission and scanning electron microscopy . a severe and consistent circumferential skip lesion was found on the luminal surface involving the intima and media . in 30 percent of vessels , histopathologic damage extended more than 3.0 cm from the rupture point . similar circumferential tears occurred on the luminal surface of resected human avulsed arteries collected at the time of replantation surgery . no consistent lesions were noted in resected veins from human avulsed amputations . it is possible that in the human artery ( as in the monkey ) circumferential lesions frequently extend many centimeters from the rupture point and therefore beyond resection distances . lesions present in the vessel after resection and microsurgical repair might be the site of thrombosis and subsequent occlusion . 
is surgery by nonsurgeons in the public 's interest ? [ editorial ] 
understanding flap necrosis [ editorial ] 
a 30-year follow-up of wax injection for the prevention of androgenic alopecia . in summary , we present a 30-year follow-up of injected wax for the prevention of male-pattern baldness . removal was precipitated by the presence of a fibroxanthoma of the scalp . no other scalp lesions were found , nor were there any manifestations of an autoimmune disease . the injected wax failed to prevent androgenic alopecia and created a remodeling of the outer table of the cortex of the skull . 
buried transverse abdominal myocutaneous flap and silicone implants to reconstruct pectus excavatum and bilateral mastectomy deformity . a combined pectus excavatum and bilateral mastectomy deformity was corrected with a deepithelialized , buried , transverse abdominal myocutaneous flap and second stage custom-made silicone implants . the shape of pectus excavatum makes it particularly amenable to correction with the transverse abdominal myocutaneous flap . 
an inexpensive wire passer . the use of a drain trochar with a length of attached silicone drain is described for passing wires through the face into the mouth in fixation of complex facial fractures . 
a simple instrument for achieving accurate alignment and pre-insertion stability with mandibular bone plates . the modified dingman forceps provides several advantages over currently designed plate-holding forceps . the rubber tubing prevents metal-to-metal contact of the forceps on the plate and provides increased stability to the plate . the long lingual jaws of the dingman forceps are applied to the lingual bone at a point remote from the screw canal , and this prevents damage to the prepared canals . the design of the forceps ' jaws provides three-point rigidity to stabilize the plate and , therefore , ensures proper alignment , adaptation , and pre-insertion fixation . 
antibacterials and breast implant capsules [ letter ] 
breast reduction by central pedicle technique [ letter ] 
computerized liposuction [ letter ] 
isolated naso-ocular cleft : a one-stage repair [ letter ] 
obliteration of compressed frontal sinus [ letter ] 
total arm flap : an alternative method of chest-wall reconstruction [ letter ] 
guided cyst puncture and aspiration . with the widespread acceptance of ultrasonography and computed tomography for the evaluation of renal masses , the role of guided renal cyst puncture in the evaluation of a suspected renal cyst has undergone revision in recent years . in this article , the authors review the technique , interpretation , and complications of diagnostic cyst puncture and attempt to define its current diagnostic and therapeutic indications . 
abscess drainage in the genitourinary tract . this article deals with the diagnosis of perirenal fluid collections as well as renal abscesses . proper diagnostic and drainage techniques are discussed , as are patient selection , route selection , catheter selection , technique , and catheter management . in addition , the cure rates of the therapeutic procedure are reviewed . 
management of urinomas by percutaneous drainage procedures . the etiology and pathogenesis of urinomas are discussed . different treatment protocols to correct the underlying cause are outlined , such as drainage by percutaneous nephrostomy or placement of a stent across a ureteral defect to promote drainage of urine from the kidney into the bladder as well as drainage of the urinoma by appropriately positioned catheters . monitoring of renal function by means of radionuclide studies assessing plasma flow rate is advocated to ascertain effectiveness of management . follow-up ct scans are used to affirm satisfactory resolution of the urinoma . 
diagnostic morphologic and urodynamic antegrade pyelography . diagnostic antegrade pyelography , with a thin needle , is basically a simple procedure that can be performed relatively rapidly under local anesthesia with few complications of significance . its role , however , is frequently crucial to subsequent patient management . during morphologic antegrade examination , aspirated urine can be analyzed for tumor cells ( cytologic examination ) , infection ( smear , culture ) , or other biochemical alterations . the use of antegrade pyelography in the demonstration of internal diversion , ureteral fistula , and the site and cause of obstruction is well established . dynamic antegrade study is crucial in the assessment of many pyeloureteral units in which the issue of current obstruction is equivocal or uncertain . absolute renal and bladder pressures are obtained simultaneously ; these and the calculated differential pressure provide objective data relative to ureteral resistance to urine flow and renal nephron preservation . 
antegrade pyelography : therapeutic applications . antegrade pyelography is a diagnostic examination that is easily converted for therapy in the urinary tract . the applications of the antegrade approach discussed in this article include drainage in obstruction and fistulas , access for manipulations , and topical treatment . 
placement of ureteral stents by antegrade and retrograde techniques . in summary , ureteral stenting is an established urologic and radiologic procedure . the percutaneous antegrade approach performed by the radiologist and the retrograde route employed by the urologist have gained acceptance as valuable adjuncts in the management of patients with ureteral obstruction due to malignancy . stents are widely used following ureteral surgery and percutaneous manipulations . they provide a route for urinary drainage while maintaining adequate ureteral caliber , so that healing of damaged ureters can take place . 
transluminal dilatation of ureteropelvic junction strictures , ureteral strictures , and strictures at ureteroneocystostomy sites . ureteral strictures are categorized by age , etiology , location , and length of stricture . on the basis of history , the status of vascular perfusion of the involved ureteral segment and possible presence of devitalization are projected . transluminal dilatation of ureteral strictures can be performed via a retrograde or antegrade approach . the age of the stricture and status of vascular supply to the involved and adjacent segments of the ureter are the most critical criteria influencing long-term results of transluminal dilatation . the technique of bougie dilatation and placement of balloons across strictures at various sites is discussed . the advantages of bougie versus balloon dilatation and the need for postdilatation stenting to preclude restricturing are analyzed . in fresh strictures , not complicated by devascularization , a 90 per cent salutary response to transluminal dilatation can be anticipated , regardless of location of the stricture , ureteroneocystostomy , or ureteroileostomy . most poor results of transluminal dilatation occur in strictures compromised by severe devascularization attendant to surgical procedures , radiation therapy , fulminating inflammatory processes , neoplasms , or any combination of these . decompression and drainage of the kidney by an internalized stent are advocated for the treatment of strictures caused by recurrent and uncontrolled neoplasm . 
percutaneous removal of renal calculi . percutaneous removal of symptomatic renal and ureteral calculi evolved in the early 1980s , replacing standard surgical stone removal operations because of reduced patient morbidity and shortened hospitalizations . a wide variety of instruments designed to work through the percutaneous track are available to remove or fragment nearly all renal calculi . success rates of this modality are excellent , and major complications are few . despite the wide applications of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy , percutaneous stone removal methods will continue to be needed in some patients . 
extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy . extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy is a new technique for treatment of symptomatic renal and upper ureteral calculi . after biplanar fluoroscopic localization of the targeted calculus , serial shock waves cause calculus disintegration , with subsequent spontaneous transurethral passage of the fragments . excellent clinical results and patient enthusiasm have resulted . physicians using extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy must also be adept at percutaneous , ureteroscopic , and standard surgical stone removal methods to deal with complex clinical stone presentations . 
selected endourologic techniques . specialized interventional radiologic techniques of use in the kidney and ureter are described in this article . access via an antegrade percutaneous nephrostomy or in the retrograde direction via the urethra is considered . the use of sheaths and other specialized instruments is explained , as are ureteral manipulations as an adjunct to extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy . interventional techniques used in the urethra and bladder are described . 
urethral disease and interventional cystourethrography . the innovation of balloon dilatation of urethral stricture and prostatic hypertrophy is a major contribution to interventional radiology . the procedure involves minimal trauma , produces immediate relief of symptoms , and probably results in less frequent and less difficult redilatations . the sparsity of reports in the literature on this subject reflects the reluctance of urologists to refer patients for balloon dilatation of urethral strictures . every effort must be made by the radiologist to impress the urologist with the value of this procedure , which would eliminate the production of false passages and likely reduce the recurrence rate . initial results with this procedure are encouraging , but larger series are required and long-term follow-up is necessary for evaluation of cure rate , rate of recurrence , and possible complications . 
an algorithmic approach to the diagnosis and staging of renal neoplasms . 
extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy : interventional radiologic solutions to associated problems . among 1 , 500 patients treated with extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy , 1 , 300 had calculi less than 2.5 cm in diameter and 200 had calculi of 2.5 cm or larger . although most patients did well and required no further radiologic intervention , 178 interventional radiologic procedures were performed . urinary tract obstruction often developed in patients with large stones when the collecting system filled with stone fragments ( steinstrasse ) . nephrostomy was performed in 5.3 % of the total patient population and in 29 % of the patients with stones measuring 2.5 cm or more . only 1.8 % of the patients with calculi smaller than 2.5 cm required radiologic intervention . when the obstructed collecting system could not be crossed with conventional angiographic techniques , the stone fragments were removed through a percutaneous nephrostomy tract either by flushing or by suctioning with a pulsating water jet . 
intraarterial fibrinolysis : in vitro and prospective clinical evaluation of three thrombolytic agents . in order to investigate and compare the fibrinolytic activity of streptokinase , streptokinase-glutamine-plasminogen , and urokinase for intraarterial fibrinolysis , as in vitro test and a prospective trial were performed . for the in vitro demonstration of lytic activity , fibrin plates with plasminogen and fibrin plates without plasminogen were incubated with streptokinase ; with streptokinase-plasminogen in molar proportions of 1 : 1 , 1 : 2 , and 2 : 1 , and with urokinase . in order to examine the in vivo activity of the different lytic solutions , 98 patients suffering from peripheral arterial occlusions were divided into three homogeneous groups for treatment with streptokinase , streptokinase-plasminogen , and urokinase . although urokinase was superior to streptokinase on the fibrin plate with plasminogen , no difference was demonstrated in vivo between the two lytic agents . streptokinase-plasminogen in a molar proportion of 1 : 2 showed significantly higher fibrinolytic activity than any other solution . therefore , the fibrinolytic agent of choice for intrathrombotic injections seems to be a 1 : 2 solution of streptokinase with plasminogen or with the lytic enzyme plasmin itself . 
an experimental evaluation of microcapsules for arterial chemoembolization . microcapsules , 106 micron ( range , 50-350 micron ) , of different capsular materials ( monoglyceride , monodiglyceride , natural wax , cellulose polymer , or lactic acid polymer ) with and without floxuridine ( 2'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine , fudr ) were intraarterially injected into dog kidneys . the drug-release characteristics of the microcapsules , as determined by analysis of renal and systemic venous blood samples over a 6-hour period , were uniphasic or multiphasic depending on the capsular material . histologic changes of varying degrees were noted in all kidneys embolized except for those subjected to capsules of the cellulose polymer . the most striking changes were produced by the lactide polymer capsules . the potential applications of microencapsuled chemotherapeutic agents in intraarterial transcatheter treatment of cancer are discussed . 
mr-guided aspiration biopsy : needle design and clinical trials . nonferrous needles of pure brass , titanium , or copper , and ferrous needles of different alloys of stainless steel were analyzed for the size , area , and distribution of the image artifact created when the needles were placed in a 0.6-t magnet . results demonstrated that a stainless steel prototype needle ( type 316 ) would be visible on magnetic resonance images and would provide an artifact similar to that seen in computed tomographic-guided biopsies . further testing of this prototype included assessment of the effect on the artifact when changes were made in annealing properties , gauge , length , needle-tip geometry , pulse sequence , and orientation relative to the magnetic field . to date , three human liver biopsies have been successfully and safely performed using a stainless steel type 316 needle . 
experience with the amplatz retrievable vena caval filter . work in progress . the amplatz retrievable vena caval filter was designed in an attempt to decrease complications associated with the placement of mobin-uddin or kimray-greenfield filters . the design allows percutaneous retrieval , thus expanding application of the filter to situations requiring temporary prophylaxis against pulmonary embolism . filters have been placed in 16 patients , nine ( 56 % ) for prophylactic purposes . all filters were easily inserted percutaneously . complications occurred in three patients ; these included complete thrombosis of the inferior vena cava below the filter , misplacement of one filter into the pericaval retroperitoneal tissue , and development of thrombus cranial to the filter . with the current introduction system , the possibility of filter misplacement has been essentially eliminated . no patient experienced symptoms suggestive of pulmonary embolism after filter insertion . one filter retrieval has been performed , with no complications . 
excretory urography with iohexol : evaluation in children . a multicenter clinical study was conducted using iohexol , a second-generation nonionic contrast medium , for excretory urography performed in 130 children . doses of iohexol ( 300 mg iodine / ml ) ranged between 150 and 660 mgi / kg ( 0.5 and 2.2 ml / kg ) . iohexol was tolerated well , and no significant adverse reactions occurred . sixty-five iohexol urograms were evaluated to determine the minimum dose for adequate visualization of the kidneys and collecting systems . a dose greater than 300 mgi / kg ( 1.0 ml / kg ) always resulted in a urogram of diagnostic quality , while visualization was insufficient for diagnosis in 10 % of studies done with doses of 150-300 mgi / kg ( 0.5-1.0 ml / kg ) . another 65 iohexol urograms were compared in a blinded manner with a similar number of studies performed using iothalamate meglumine at comparable iodine concentration and dose . visualization of calyces and pelvoinfundibular structures achieved with iohexol was rated better with statistical significance , but there was no difference in visualization of the renal parenchyma or ureters . use of iohexol in excretory urography may be advantageous in children who are at greatest risk for an adverse reaction to contrast media or in those most likely to benefit from use of a low osmolality contrast agent . 
anterior diaphragm : variations in the ct appearance . the anterior portion of the diaphragm has three typical appearances on computed tomographic ( ct ) scans , depending on the cephalocaudal relation of the xiphoid to the central tendon of the diaphragm . the anterior diaphragm most often appears as a relatively smooth or slightly undulating soft-tissue curve , concave posteriorly and continuous across the midline with the lateral diaphragmatic arcs . in the next most frequent ct appearance , the diaphragmatic line is discontinuous in the midline . on each of these images , the muscular line diverges rather than converges as it approaches the anterior chest wall . less commonly , the anterior portions of the diaphragm are imaged on ct not as a thin line but instead as a broad band with irregular , ill-defined , or angular margins . occasionally , the anterior diaphragmatic muscle is not identified on ct because the muscle fibers are inseparable from adjacent structures , or are extremely short or even absent . an understanding of these anatomic variations permits the correct diagnosis of morgagni hernias and explains previously described variants of plain radiographic configurations of pneumoperitoneum . 
centrilobular lesions of the lung : demonstration by high-resolution ct and pathologic correlation . to determine the value of high-resolution computed tomography ( hrct ) in the diagnosis of diffuse pulmonary diseases , a direct hrct-pathologic correlative study was performed using four inflated and fixed lungs from autopsy . in normal lungs , the smallest pulmonary artery resolved by hrct was 200 microns in diameter ; the artery was accompanied by the terminal bronchiole and the first-order respiratory bronchiole . the distance from the vessel to the corresponding lobular border ranged from 3 to 5 mm . these results suggest that the centrilobular area or the area around the terminal or respiratory bronchioles can be recognized with hrct . in addition , the authors confirmed that centrilobular emphysema and centrilobular tuberculous nodules can be diagnosed with hrct . thus , hrct can demonstrate the location of pathologic changes within a lobule and may be helpful in the differential diagnosis of diffuse pulmonary diseases . 
mediastinal vessels : postoperative evaluation with mr imaging . the mediastinal vessels in 27 patients who had previously undergone vascular surgery were evaluated with use of magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging for patency and the presence of stenosis . thirty-six postoperative vessels or shunts were studied , including 11 aortas after coarctation or stenosis repair , 18 systemic-pulmonary shunts , four pulmonary artery or vein repairs , and three spiral vein grafts . angiographic ( n = 21 ) , direct surgical ( n = 1 ) , contrast material-enhanced computed tomography ( n = 1 ) , or clinical ( n = 13 ) findings were correlated with the mr findings . overall , the accuracy of mr imaging for determination of patency was 100 % . in patients with angiographic correlation and technically adequate mr examinations , mr imaging results were used to identify or exclude stenoses correctly in 66.7 % of patent vessels . the four missed or underestimated stenoses occurred in vessels 10 mm or less in diameter . 
impending cardiac herniation : the snow cone sign . two cases of cardiac herniation and volvulus that occurred after right pneumonectomy are presented . both asymptomatic patients demonstrated an unusual bulging contour to the right side of the heart on radiographs obtained in the recovery room , before complete herniation and volvulus occurred . in an autopsy preparation , a similar right contour was produced after partial cardiac herniation through a pericardial defect . the hemispheric contour from partial cardiac herniation resembles the shape of a snow cone . clinical awareness of this sign of impending herniation is important , so risk factors known to produce herniation may be modified . 
cardiac herniation and volvulus : radiographic findings . cardiac herniation with volvulus is a catastrophic complication of right intrapericardial pneumonectomy . this case illustrates diagnostic radiographic findings that may be essential for early diagnosis and survival , since the clinical signs are nonspecific . 
cardiac levorotation : a cause of false-positive epicardial fat pad sign . in a 60-year-old man , two chest radiographs showed an apparently thickened pericardial stripe . echocardiography and surgery for aortic valve replacement showed no pericardial fluid or thickening . an angiocardiogram showed that the patient 's right coronary artery was positioned more medially than usual because of levorotation of the heart , producing the false-positive fat pad sign . 
right-pneumonectomy syndrome : radiologic findings and ct correlation . the clinical history and radiographic and bronchoscopic findings were reviewed retrospectively in five patients with right-pneumonectomy syndrome , a rare , delayed complication of pneumonectomy of the right lung . four patients had undergone pneumonectomy in childhood or adolescence . presenting symptoms of dyspnea and recurrent pulmonary infections in the left lung were associated with radiographic evidence of marked rightward and posterior deviation of the mediastinum , counterclockwise rotation of the heart and great vessels , and herniation of the left lung into the right , anterior side of the chest . computed tomography , performed in four patients , best demonstrated resultant compression of the distal trachea and left main bronchus between the aorta and pulmonary artery . malacia of the major airways ( n = 4 cases ) and mediastinal shift was visualized only with fluoroscopy and was confirmed by bronchoscopy . because of the morbidity and mortality associated with dyspnea and recurrent pulmonary infections , proper radiologic evaluation is crucial , and surgical intervention is often necessary . 
traction bronchiectasis in end-stage pulmonary fibrosis . postmortem examination of the lungs of 12 patients with end-stage pulmonary fibrosis revealed the frequent ( nine of 12 ) presence of bronchiectasis . the segmental and subsegmental bronchi were dilated , tortuous , and had a convoluted appearance that resembled a string of pearls . bronchiectasis was confined to areas of advanced fibrosis . when fibrosis was mild or when it was combined with emphysema , bronchiectasis was absent or mild . specimen radiographs revealed that bronchiectasis frequently contributed to the radiographic appearance of honeycombing . retrospective analysis of the plain chest radiographs obtained from five of the patients revealed evidence suggestive of bronchiectasis , but bronchiectasis was difficult to detect unless the surrounding lung was radiopaque . in two living patients with end-stage pulmonary fibrosis , bronchiectasis was much better depicted on computed tomography scans than on plain chest radiographs . in patients with pulmonary fibrosis , the presence of bronchiectasis does not necessarily imply the presence of primary bronchial disease . rather , bronchiectasis can be a direct result of the fibrotic process . 
retrocardiac phantom image on hypocycloidal chest tomograms . a phantom image produced by displaced blur margins of the cardiac silhouette and mimicking a paraspinous retrocardiac mass was noted in 50 % of 125 hypocycloidal full chest tomograms . it was reproduced on tomograms of a chest phantom . careful comparison with routine posteroanterior and lateral chest radiographs prevents misinterpretation . 
levotransposition of the aorta : identification of segmental cardiac anatomy using mr imaging . several reports have shown that high-quality magnetic resonance ( mr ) images can be obtained in patients with congenital heart disease . however , little attention has been paid to the segmental analysis of cardiac mr images . the authors believe that this approach is essential in the evaluation of complex congenital cardiac abnormalities . the segmental approach is based on the morphologic identification of the different cardiac compartments and the type of connection among these compartments . the authors applied the basic principles of the segmental approach to the interpretation of mr images obtained in a group of patients with levotransposition of the aorta . results indicate that this logical step-by-step method can be used to advantage in the accurate analysis of mr images obtained in patients with complex congenital cardiac disease . in this report , the authors discuss the results obtained when the segmental approach is used to interpret cardiac mr images . 
side branch occlusion complicating percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . a frequent concern during angioplasty is the possibility of occluding important side branches that originate in arterial stenoses subjected to balloon dilatation . the effect of dilatation on 93 side branches ( greater than or equal to 1 mm in diameter ) was evaluated in 86 patients undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) in whom those branches arose directly in dilated segments of the left anterior descending , circumflex , or right coronary arteries . seventy-six of the 93 side branches had minor ( less than 50 % ) narrowing at their origin . among these side branches , nine ( 12 % ) were compromised by ptca . seventeen of the 93 side branches had greater than 50 % ostial stenosis . significantly more of these side branches ( seven of seventeen , or 41 % ) were compromised by ptca ( p less than .01 ) . even when compromise does occur , it usually takes the form of increased stenosis rather than total occlusion . the presence of side branches originating in stenotic lesions is not a contraindication to ptca since serious compromise of such branches rarely results from this procedure . 
" ductectatic " mucinous cystadenoma and cystadenocarcinoma of the pancreas . five cases of localized cystic dilatation of a side branch of the main pancreatic duct due to a new entity ( " ductectatic " mucinous cystadenoma and cystadenocarcinoma ) are reported . the dilated duct was widely covered by epithelium indistinguishable from that of mucinous cystadenoma ( n = 4 ) or cystadenocarcinoma ( n = 1 ) of the pancreas . all lesions were located in the uncinate process and were about 3 cm in size . on computed tomographic scans and sonograms , lesions were difficult to distinguish from simple cyst of the pancreas unless lobulated or irregular margins were demonstrated . endoscopic retrograde pancreatography ( erp ) or operative pancreatography clearly demonstrated characteristic findings : localized , prominent cystic dilatation of a side branch of the main pancreatic duct with grape-like clusters or pear-shaped pools of contrast material associated with filling defects of various sizes . when a cystic lesion is noted in the uncinate process of the pancreas , erp is mandatory to confirm or rule out this potentially or overtly malignant disease . 
portal hemodynamics in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma . the protal blood flow was assessed in 46 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma , 81 with cirrhosis , and 110 control subjects using an ultrasonic b-mode pulsed doppler duplex system . the cross-sectional area of the portal vein was increased , and the velocity of portal blood flow was decreased in hepatocellular carcinoma and cirrhosis , whereas the blood flow volume was not significantly different . a significant decrease in portal blood flow was found in hepatocellular carcinoma only when at least three of the four major branches of the portal vein were occluded . the change in portal hemodynamics before and after transcatheter arterial embolization ( tae ) was investigated . immediately after tae , neither portal venous pressure nor portal blood flow showed any constant trend . the portal blood flow reached a peak 1 week after tae and then returned to its former value after 3-4 weeks , while all cases with poor prognoses showed a drop in portal blood flow after tae . 
periportal tuberculous adenitis : ct features . the computed tomographic ( ct ) findings in six patients with periportal tuberculous adenitis were reviewed retrospectively to analyze the main morphologic features of the disease . in all patients , hypodense lymph nodes were observed close to the porta hepatis , with peripheral enhancement seen after administration of contrast material . in one patient , this hypodense adenopathy was associated with homogeneous , normally enhancing lymph nodes . these different features on the ct scans could signify the evolving pathologic stages of the disease , with early noncaseating granulomas and subsequent caseation necrosis . recognition of these hypodense lymph nodes , especially in patients at risk , should help optimize the correct diagnosis of periportal tuberculous adenitis . 
magnetic resonance angiography . pulse sequences that permit selective detection of moving spins in a magnetic resonance image have been developed . experiments were performed by the authors to produce projected angiographic data without the use of contrast agents , with the intensity of each image pixel determined by the macroscopic velocity of the detected spins . with this method , suppression of nonmoving spins is essentially complete , yielding a high dynamic range in signal intensity for detected vessels . selective detection of moving spins is not dependent on pulsatile flow . consequently , not only arterial structures , but also venous structures can easily be visualized . high-resolution angiographic images can be obtained by combining the flow experiment with surface coil techniques . 
multiple sclerosis : gadolinium enhancement in mr imaging . magnetic resonance ( mr ) images--both nonenhanced and enhanced with gadolinium dtpa / dimeglumine ( gd ) --were compared with high-iodine ( 88.1 g i ) computed tomographic ( hict ) scans in demonstrating lesions in 15 patients known to have multiple sclerosis ( ms ) . t1-weighted , mixed ( t1 , proton density , and t2 ) , and t2-weighted mr pulse sequences were used . more than 20 lesions in each of 14 patients were demonstrated by pre-gd mixed images and t2wi . nine patients had clinical symptoms of active disease . gd-enhanced t1wi showed at least one lesion that appeared to correspond with newly reported symptoms or signs . in addition , three clinically stable patients showed enhancement . enhancement was best seen on 3-minute t1wi . hict scans showed enhancement in four of the nine patients with active disease and in none of five clinically stable patients . gd-enhanced mr imaging appears to be more sensitive than hict in the detection of the transient abnormalities of the blood-brain barrier that occur in patients with active ms and appears capable of distinguishing active lesions that may correspond to the anatomic regions responsible for abnormal clinical findings . 
optimal pulse sequence for imaging hepatic metastases . for magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging studies in which the diagnosis is dependent on image contrast , it is essential that an optimized imaging technique be used . using detection of hepatic metastases as an example , the authors describe a rational strategy for optimizing mr imaging technique . first , for a single patient with proved hepatic metastases , a variety of imaging sequences is discussed and evaluated , leading to characterization of the patient 's hepatic tissues . then the characteristics of the tissues of a representative patient population are presented . these are used to determine two optimal pulse sequences that maximize the achievable signal difference-to-noise ratio achievable in a fixed imaging time . the recommended imaging sequence for detection of hepatic metastases at 0.15 t is either a three-dimensional volume spin-echo ( se ) sequence with echo time ( te ) = 12 msec and repetition time ( tr ) = 184 msec or a multisection inversion recovery sequence with te = 22 msec , inversion time = 250 msec , and tr = 1 , 375 msec . the variation of this optimum pulse sequence with field strength is also presented . 
rate of spinal trabecular bone loss in normal perimenopausal women : ct measurement . age-related bone loss in women may begin at any time following attainment of peak skeletal maturity bone mass . the rate of bone loss may accelerate near the time of menopause and continue for several years thereafter . women with low baseline bone mass and women who are fast bone losers are potentially at risk for early spinal osteoporosis . in a prospective longitudinal study , spinal trabecular bone mineral content ( bmc ) of 83 healthy women , 47-53 years old , was measured with use of computed tomography ( ct ) at 0 , 12 , 24 , and 36 months . fifty-four of these same women had a fifth measurement at 48 months . in 51 women the rate of bone loss was less than or equal to 2 % per year ( average 1.96 % ; normal bone losers ) ; in 32 , it was more than 2 % per year ( average 5.61 % ; fast bone losers ) . ct studies can identify women with low spinal trabecular bmc and / or fast bone loss--women likely to be at increased risk for early spinal osteoporosis . this information may be useful in selection of candidates for vigorous preventive measures , including estrogen replacement . 
avascular necrosis of the femoral head : morphologic assessment by mr imaging , with ct correlation . to better understand the morphologic appearance of avascular necrosis ( avn ) of the femoral head on magnetic resonance ( mr ) images ( 1.5 t ) and computed tomographic ( ct ) scans , the records of 21 lesions were reviewed retrospectively . all mr imaging studies included t1-weighted images ( t1wi ) ( repetition times [ tr ] of 400-1 , 000 msec , and echo times [ te ] of 20-25 msec ) , and 15 included t2-weighted images ( t2wi ) ( tr = 2 , 000-2 , 500 msec ; te = 60-80 msec ) . mr signal features of the lesions were compared with features on the corresponding ct scans . abnormalities in the superoanterior aspect of the femoral head were noted on both image types in all 21 lesions but were more obvious on mr images in two . a characteristic margin of peripheral sclerosis seen on ct scans in 95 % ( 20 of 21 ) of lesions corresponded to a line of low intensity on mr images . fractures complicating avn were seen in eight lesions at ct scanning . on t1wi , fractures were not clearly delineated . on t2wi , fractures were of high intensity but were depicted less clearly than on ct scans . central signal intensity of the lesions on t1wi correlated with the presence or absence of fracture : 88 % ( seven of eight ) of the lesions with fractures appeared less intense than fat , compared with only 8 % ( one of 13 ) of lesions without fractures ( p less than .005 ) . while mr imaging is a sensitive method for early diagnosis of avn , ct scanning can more accurately identify fractures and is thus important for staging . 
peroneal tendon injuries : ct analysis . computed tomographic ( ct ) evaluation of the peroneal tendons was obtained in 25 normal ankles and 30 abnormal ankles studied for trauma . the tendons and associated soft-tissue and bony structures , such as the calcaneofibular ligament , superior and inferior peroneal retinacula , fibular groove , and peroneal tubercle , which have heretofore evaded documentation on routine radiographs , are illustrated and discussed . special attention is given to normal variations such as convex fibular tip and enlarged peroneal tubercle , which predispose the peroneal tendons to abnormal mechanical stresses . examples of ct-established peroneal tendon abnormalities in the 30 cases examined are also demonstrated . these abnormalities include subluxation , dislocation , entrapment , and tenosynovitis of the peroneal tendons . the authors believe ct has proved to be an extremely useful and relatively noninvasive imaging tool for the evaluation of peroneal tendon injuries . 
bone erosion in synovial chondromatosis . of 30 patients with synovial chondromatosis , nine had prominent pressure defects at the articular margins of the hip and shoulder . erosions of bone may be extensive , and the patient can be at risk for developing a pathologic fracture . synovial chondromatosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of lesions causing erosions of the articular ends of the bones ; it is not as uncommon as has been previously suggested . 
cervical radiculopathy : prospective evaluation with surface coil mr imaging , ct with metrizamide , and metrizamide myelography . a prospective study was undertaken to compare the accuracy of surface coil magnetic resonance ( scmr ) imaging , metrizamide myelography ( mm ) , and computed tomography with metrizamide ( ctm ) in the determination of cervical radiculopathy . surgical findings were the objective measure of accuracy . fifty-two patients underwent all imaging studies . studies were evaluated for disease location and type ( bone vs . soft tissue ) . twenty-eight patients underwent subsequent cervical surgery at 39 levels form an anterior interbody approach . predictions made with scmr imaging were surgically confirmed in 74 % of patients , with ctm in 85 % , and with mm in 67 % . there was 90 % agreement with surgical findings when scmr imaging and ctm were used jointly , and 92 % agreement when ctm and mm were used jointly , in general , scmr imaging was as sensitive as ctm for identification of disease level , but not as specific for type of disease . mm was the modality least specific for disease type . the major advantage of ctm was its ability to distinguish bone from soft tissue , for which contrast material is unnecessary . scmr imaging is a viable alternative to mm and , together with computed tomography , if needed , provides a thorough examination of the cervical region . 
pituitary adenomas : high-resolution mr imaging at 1.5 t . the magnetic resonance ( mr ) images of 28 patients with surgically confirmed pituitary adenomas were retrospectively evaluated . the examinations were performed on a 1.5-t superconducting mr system using a multisection spin-echo technique with 3-mm-thick sections and a 256 x 256 matrix . t1- and t2-weighted images were obtained in sagittal and coronal planes . the mr findings were correlated with detailed operative reports and diagrams . there were 11 microadenomas and 17 macroadenomas . ten of the microadenomas and all of the macroadenomas were accurately localized and their extent delineated , particularly on t1-weighted coronal sections . adenomas typically appeared hypointense on t1-weighted coronal sections . the appearance on t2-weighted images was variable , and generally the lesions were less well seen . involvement of parasellar structures , particularly the optic chiasm and cavernous sinuses , was accurately depicted . cyst formation and hemorrhage could be characterized in some instances . in general , there was excellent correlation between mr imaging and operative findings . 
intracranial lesions : flow-related enhancement on mr images using time-of-flight effects . many physico-anatomic variables and instrument parameters influence the relative magnetic resonance signal intensity of vascular channels . the interaction of these mechanisms is complex , but their composite effects can be accounted for by two main categories of flow phenomena : time-of-flight effects and spin-phase changes . of these two mechanisms only the time-of-flight effect known as flow-related enhancement produces augmentation of intravascular signal . flow-related enhancement can potentially provide positive contrast of diagnostic value in terms of anatomic depiction of vascular detail as well as physiologic characterization of blood flow . the authors have used a single-section , selectively irradiated , spin-echo pulse sequence to maximize flow-related enhancement within a variety of intracranial lesions , as a supplement to their regular imaging . the technique was found to be diagnostically useful in improving the conspicuity of vascular lesions , in determining vessel patency , in distinguishing flow void from calcification , and in obtaining semiquantitative information about flow dynamics . 
cerebrospinal fluid pulsation : benefits and pitfalls in mr imaging . physiologic cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) pulsation causes a harmonic modulation of proton precessional phase with two-dimensional fourier transform ( 2dft ) imaging , which results in predictable regions of signal loss and the presence of phase-shift images ( " ghost images " ) . csf that is not pulsating exhibits a higher signal than does pulsatile csf . this phenomenon can be diagnostically useful in disease entities associated with decreased csf pulsation amplitude , such as arachnoid cyst , intraventricular cyst , spinal stenosis , and spinal block caused by extramedullary or epidural tumor . unfortunately , this increased signal can also mimic disease such as epidural tumor in the spine or acoustic neuroma in the internal auditory canal . an abnormal pattern of csf pulsation , as occurs in patients with arachnoiditis , can cause unusual areas of signal loss , which complicate image interpretation and can mimic pathologic conditions . recognition of csf pulsation effects will increase in importance as thin-section magnetic resonance imaging becomes more common , because thin sections enhance these effects with 2dft . 
multiphasic mr imaging : a new method for direct imaging of pulsatile csf flow . a new technique is described that allows for the creation of pure pulsatile flow magnetic resonance ( mr ) images in a single acquisition . five to 16 electrocardiographically gated images spanning the entire cardiac cycle are obtained with use of a gradient-echo pulse sequence . the section can be varied from 4 mm thick to full thickness projection . taken singly , each image provides direct assessment of flow direction and velocity . subtraction of image pairs eliminates signal detected from stationary protons , producing images of pulsatile flow . in this study the technique was used to image the flow of cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) in healthy subjects and in one patient with syringohydromyelia . the data suggest that multiphasic mr imaging provides a powerful means for the noninvasive assessment of csf pulsatile flow dynamics and may have potential clinical application for the investigation of a variety of abnormalities such as normal pressure hydrocephalus , syrinx , and spinal block . 
nerve root enlargement in charcot-marie-tooth disease : ct appearance . charcot-marie-tooth disease is a hereditary hypertrophic neuropathy . the finding of massive enlargement of the spinal nerve roots is demonstrated on a computed tomographic scan in a patient with this disease . 
human brain infarcts : gd-dtpa-enhanced mr imaging . during food and drug administration phase ii and iii clinical trials for gadolinium dtpa , the paramagnetic agent was used to study 11 patients with 20 subacute and chronic cerebral infarcts . five patients had numerous periventricular and deep white-matter lesions , probably due to chronic ischemic disease . magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was performed 4-30 days after the ictus , preceded by computed tomography ( ct ) in all but one case . in most cases , the nonenhanced spin-echo ( se ) images , obtained at 500-msec repetition times and 30-msec echo times , failed to demonstrate the infarct , and in general the gadolinium-enhanced se 500 / 30 images matched the contrast material-enhanced ct scans in pattern . periventricular lesions and small , deep , white-matter infarcts that were chronic and asymptomatic were not enhanced by gadolinium mr . however , three small , symptomatic capsular and brain-stem infarcts showed definite enhancement . usually the enhancement was visible at 3 minutes , increasing to a peak at 30 minutes . at 55 minutes , the enhancement increased in the medium-aged infarcts ( 8-14 days ) , while it decreased in the late infarcts ( 15-30 days ) . the t2 relaxation time-weighted pulse sequences were most sensitive for demonstrating all infarcts , but without the aid of a contrast agent , they were frequently poor in specificity . 
observation of metabolites in the human brain by mr spectroscopy . measurement of low molecular weight metabolites by hydrogen magnetic resonance ( mr ) spectroscopy is complicated by the presence of intense signals from water and lipids . a method of spatially resolved spectroscopy ( spars ) , combined with techniques to suppress water signal , was used to overcome this problem . by means of spars , a signal can be obtained from a particular volume only , with no signal from the rest of the sample . thus , a volume in the brain can be selected , and intense lipid signals from other tissue are suppressed . the spars technique is based on the use of pulsed magnetic field gradients , which makes it possible to select the sensitive volume on the basis of an mr image . suppression of the intense water signal was achieved by applying a 1331 observation pulse . with these techniques , n-acetyl aspartate was successfully measured in the human brain with a 1.5-t whole-body imager , and lactate was observed in excised brain tissue of a pig . measurement of low molecular weight metabolites has potential significance in evaluating patients with diseases of the brain ; further studies are underway to assess this potential . 
cavernosography in conjunction with artificial erection for evaluation of venous leakage in impotent men . twenty men with incomplete penile erection or inability to maintain an erection were evaluated to determine if venous leakage was a cause . cavernosography was performed in conjunction with artificial erection induced by infusion of saline into the corpus cavernosa . thirteen patients requiring higher than normal rates of saline infusion to achieve or maintain erection showed filling of superficial veins in the flaccid state as well as during erection . in five of the seven patients with normal saline requirements there was no filling of superficial veins , and two showed filling in the flaccid state only . of the thirteen patients whose conditions were diagnosed as venous leakage , seven underwent surgical ligation of superficial veins and deep penile vein arterialization by a saphenous vein bypass graft between the superficial femoral artery and deep penile vein . all these patients had reduced saline requirements postoperatively . when cavernosography is performed in the flaccid state only , filling of superficial veins can occur normally ; therefore , these studies should be performed with artificial erection . 
impotence : evaluation with cavernosography . many patients with organic impotence do not have abnormalities of the penile arterial system . to determine the function of the venous system in erection , cavernosography was performed in 187 impotent men during artificial induction of erection with monitoring of intracavernous pressure and inflow . to evaluate the mechanism of active erection , 69 patients also received intracavernous injections of papaverine . venous leakage was found in 88 patients . in these patients , a higher than normal rate of flow of diluted , heparinized contrast medium was required to initiate and maintain erection . opacification of the prostatic plexus also occurred during erection in these patients . in all patients who received papaverine , the flow rates required to initiate and maintain erection decreased . the authors conclude that cavernosography and cavernometry are essential in the work-up of impotence and that papaverine may be helpful in elucidating the active mechanism of erection . 
erectile dysfunction caused by venous leakage : treatment with detachable balloons and coils . impotence can be caused by leakage of venous blood from the penis during erection . of 135 patients studied with erectile dysfunction , 40 had venous leakage , and these patients were classified into three groups according to findings on cavernosograms . thirty-one patients were treated with implantation of balloons and coils . twenty-six of these patients now have normal sexual function . the authors believe this technique is simple , safe , and effective for the treatment of impotence caused by venous leakage . 
unstable bladder in children : functional evaluation by modified voiding cystourethrography . a slightly modified technique for voiding cystourethrography was applied in 100 patients between 4 and 15 years of age and used to study uninhibited detrusor contractions in the so-called unstable bladder syndrome . uninhibited detrusor contractions result in a slowing or cessation of the flow of contrast material into the bladder and a simultaneous minimal or marked opening of the bladder neck , with variable filling of the posterior urethra . comparison of the radiologic findings with the results of urodynamic studies demonstrated an overall accuracy of 92 % , sensitivity of 93 % , and specificity of 90.7 % for the radiologic technique . 
loculated abscesses : management by percutaneous fracture of septations . large , multiloculated abscesses can be difficult to drain percutaneously . the authors describe a technique for disrupting septations within an abscess cavity to provide more complete and effective drainage . it has been successfully performed in four patients . 
pitfall in mr imaging of lymphadenopathy after lymphangiography . in two patients examined with magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging after lymphangiography , opacified pelvic lymph nodes could not be distinguished from subcutaneous or retroperitoneal fat because of the short t1 and long t2 relaxation times of lymphangiographic contrast media . opacified nodes removed from one patient had relaxation times similar to those of fat . thus , assessment of lymphadenopathy with mr imaging should be performed before lymphangiography to obviate this potential pitfall . 
breast mr imaging with loop-gap resonators . breast images obtained at 1.5 t using a loop-gap resonator pair as both the excitation and detection device are presented . the efficiency of this approach is high , as judged by the low level of radio frequency ( rf ) power required to obtain a 90 degree pulse and the uniformity of the rf field within the resonator pair . a modification of the pair geometry provides for reasonable observation of the tissues through the chest wall and laterally to the axillae . 
celiac plexus block for interventional radiology . the effectiveness of regional anesthesia for pain control during biliary manipulations was evaluated . celiac plexus and / or thoracic epidural blockade was used for 48 procedures in 31 patients . all blockades were administered and patients monitored by anesthesiologists in the radiology department . thoracic epidural blockade did not alleviate the deep visceral pain associated with biliary manipulations . celiac plexus blockade in conjunction with local skin anesthesia markedly reduced pain , minimizing the need for intravenously administered narcotics . two patients experienced transient hypotension during induction of regional anesthesia . there were no other complications . twelve patients who had previous biliary manipulations with only intravenously administered analgesia reported excellent pain relief with regional anesthesia and expressed a preference for regional anesthesia should another procedure be necessary . the authors conclude that celiac plexus block is a desirable technique of providing analgesia , especially when major biliary interventions are undertaken . 
difficult mammographic needle localizations : use of alternate orthogonal projections . lesions deep within the breast are occasionally visible on only one standard mammographic projection and are therefore difficult to localize preoperatively . such abnormalities can often be visualized on two orthogonal 45 degrees oblique views . in these cases , needle localizations may be performed in a routine manner without computed tomography or stereotactic methods . 
assessment of impotence with cavernosography [ editorial ] 
mammographic screening : how to operate successfully at low cost [ letter ] 
potential radiation hazards to personnel during dynamic ct [ letter ] 
current status of lumbar diskography [ letter ] 
low-osmolality contrast media : premises and promises . after more than 30 years of experience in the united states with high-osmolality , ionic , radiopaque contrast media ( hocm ) , low-osmolality contrast media ( locm ) , both ionic and nonionic , have recently been introduced into the marketplace . under the current atmosphere of cost controls ( prospective payment system ) and consumerism in medicine , the higher cost of these newer agents has sparked heated debate , with the lingering question , " can we afford to use them ? " the new locm are not the only " expensive " drugs undergoing an economically constrained introduction into clinical practice , but they represent a significant challenge for radiologists in terms of our doctor-patient relationships and the monetarization of medical care . review of the extensive literature documenting improvement in patient acceptance , tolerance , and safety , with equal or improved diagnostic efficacy , suggests that the question now at hand is , " can we afford not to use them ? " this premise is discussed with text and references designed to aid the practicing radiologist and referring physician in developing guidelines for utilization of the new locm . 
partially thrombosed giant intracranial aneurysms : correlation of mr and pathologic findings . two patients with surgically and angiographically proved partially thrombosed giant aneurysms of the middle cerebral artery were studied with computed tomography ( ct ) and magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging . mr and histopathologic findings were correlated . the central location of methemoglobin , with its high intensity ( surrounding the patent lumen , seen as signal void ) , in giant aneurysms is directly opposite the initial peripheral appearance of methemoglobin in extra-aneurysmal intracerebral hematomas . more peripherally , the thrombosed portion of the lumen is layered with intensities that represent stages of clot ( methemoglobin and hemosiderin ) . three characteristics enable differentiation of giant aneurysms from intracerebral hematoma : signal void in residual patent lumen ; laminated , staged thrombus with intervening layers of hemosiderin and methemoglobin that is initially centrally , rather than only peripherally , located ; and signal void in the vessel from which the aneurysm arises . hemorrhage from prior bleeding can be readily identified and separated from perianeurysmal edema on mr images . mr appears to be a specific , noninvasive method for diagnosing partially thrombosed giant intracranial aneurysms and is superior to ct and angiography in characterizing these lesions . 
subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy ( leigh disease ) : ct study . leigh disease , or subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy ( sne ) , is a familial , degenerative disorder characterized by lesions of the gray and white matter in the brain and spinal cord . low attenuation in the putamina on computed tomography ( ct ) scans is considered to be characteristic of the disease . the authors used ct to study five patients , in three of whom the disease was confirmed histologically . in one of the patients with documented sne , there was extensive gray matter lucency with normal basal ganglia . ct scans obtained in a second patient showed diffuse , diseased white matter with focal cortical extension and bilateral caudate involvement . in the other three cases , ct scans revealed the usual changes that occur in the basal ganglia . the appearance of sne on ct scans thus reflects the variable and widespread distribution of the disease . the absence of radiologically detectable abnormalities in the basal ganglia should not deter one from the diagnosis of leigh disease given in the appropriate clinical context . 
automated percutaneous diskectomy : initial patient experience . work in progress . a new method has been developed for percutaneously decompressing herniated lumbar disks . the method entails gaining access to the disk space through the use of an introduction system and a cannula . a 2-mm aspiration probe called a nucleotome is then placed through the cannula into the disk space , and the nucleus pulposus is aspirated . thirty-six patients have undergone the procedure , with a successful result in 31. there were no significant complications encountered , and the procedure is now being done on an outpatient basis . these preliminary results indicate that automated percutaneous diskectomy has the potential to replace laminectomy in the treatment of uncomplicated herniated disks . 
enlarged parathyroid glands : high-resolution local coil mr imaging [ published erratum appears in radiology 1987 aug ; 164 ( 2 ) : 586 ] twenty-two patients with primary hyperparathyroidism underwent high-resolution magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging with local ( surface ) coils for preoperative localization of enlarged parathyroid glands . the mr studies were interpreted prospectively and the results compared with findings at surgery and the results of computed tomography ( ct ) , ultrasonography ( us ) , and thallium-technetium scintigraphy ( tts ) . the sensitivity and specificity of mr imaging were .74 and .88 , respectively . the sensitivity / specificity for the other modalities were as follows : 74 / .95 for ct , .59 / .82 for us , and .82 / .98 for tts . enlarged parathyroid glands displayed a medium-intensity signal on t1-weighted images and a marked increase in intensity on t2-weighted images , but the degree of increase varied considerably . 
life-threatening hypotensive reactions to contrast media administration : comparison of pharmacologic and fluid therapy . nine patients were studied retrospectively and 21 prospectively to ascertain the effectiveness and complications of three therapeutic regimens for life-threatening hypotensive reactions ( systolic blood pressure 50 mm hg or less ) to intravenous ( iv ) contrast media . initial treatment was pharmacologic in nine patients , with fluid in 14 and combined fluid-pharmacologic in seven . all nine patients treated initially with epinephrine required fluid volume administration to restore blood pressure . thirteen of 14 patients initially treated with fluids ( 0.5-3 liters ) required no other therapy . all patients treated with the combined regimen responded satisfactorily . complications of drug therapy included six-beat ventricular tachycardia and ventricular bigeminy ( epinephrine ) and exacerbated hypotension ( diphenhydramine hydrochloride ) . no pulmonary edema was encountered as a complication of fluid therapy . fluid therapy , alone or with drugs , with electrocardiographic monitoring appears to be a safe and effective method of treating severe iv contrast agent-induced hypotension . pharmacologic therapy alone in the doses the authors used is often ineffective and may cause major complications . 
differential diagnosis of bronchiolitis obliterans with organizing pneumonia and usual interstitial pneumonia : clinical , functional , and radiologic findings . to assess the role of chest radiography in the differential diagnosis of bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia ( boop ) and usual interstitial pneumonia ( uip ) , records of 34 patients with biopsy-proved boop ( 16 patients ) or uip ( 18 patients ) were reviewed . chest radiographs taken before biopsy were available in 26 patients , clinical information in 33 , and pulmonary function data in 22. these data were reviewed independently , without knowledge of the pathologic diagnosis . the clinical symptoms of boop were similar to those of uip , although the duration of symptoms was longer in uip ( p less than .05 ) , and the prevalence of systemic symptoms was higher in boop ( p less than .025 ) . the physical findings were similar except that finger clubbing was more common in patients with uip than in those with boop ( p less than .01 ) . there was no significant difference in lung volumes , flows , or diffusing capacity between boop and uip . the chest radiograph showed distinguishing features between uip and boop in 23 of 26 patients . the most characteristic radiologic finding in boop was the presence of patchy areas of air-space consolidation ( eight of 11 patients ) . 
chest wall after mastectomy . part i . ct appearance of normal postoperative anatomy , postirradiation changes , and optimal scanning techniques . the computed tomographic ( ct ) scans of patients with breast carcinoma treated by surgery with and without radiation therapy were reviewed and correlated with clinical status . the optimal techniques of patient examination and the post-therapy findings were analyzed . the brachial injection of intravenous contrast material produced significant artifacts that limited interpretation of the ipsilateral chest wall in all cases and did not give additional information . scans obtained with the patients ' arms placed at their sides resulted in more clearly interpretable scans , especially when arm weakness or lymphedema precluded symmetric elevation of the arms out of the ct gantry . radiation therapy produced both acute and chronic changes with characteristic ct appearances . the postoperative anatomy varied markedly depending on the previous surgery . careful clinical correlation with referring physicians was the key to proper scan evaluation . 
chest wall after mastectomy . part ii . ct appearance of tumor recurrence . the postoperative computed tomography ( ct ) scans of 19 patients with breast cancer and suspected local or regional recurrence were reviewed . recurrence was documented by percutaneous biopsy in 15 and by overwhelming clinical evidence in two . ct correctly identified the sites of recurrence in all 15 biopsy-proved cases . in two patients , suspected areas on ct scans proved to be residual pectoralis muscles . in most cases , the ct findings of recurrence to the skin , subcutaneous fat , pectoralis muscle , axilla , and brachial plexus can be differentiated from the postoperative and postirradiation anatomy . 
interstitial pulmonary hemorrhage from mediastinal hematoma secondary to aortic rupture . the chest radiograph of a 79-year-old man with acute thoracic aortic rupture demonstrated enlarged , ill-defined bronchovascular markings . examination of the lungs at autopsy revealed extensive dissection of blood from the mediastinum along the bronchovascular sheaths . recognition that enlarged bronchovascular markings may represent hemorrhage rather than edema in the setting of acute aortic rupture has important therapeutic implications . 
clinically occult breast lesions : localization and significance . from early 1974 through september 1985 , 927 needle-guided breast biopsies were performed for clinically occult breast lesions . two hundred and seventy ( 29 % ) of these lesions were malignant . this frequency of malignancy was comparable to a 20 % frequency in biopsy samples obtained because of clinical ( palpable ) findings . of 142 patients with nonpalpable invasive lesions who underwent axillary dissection , 42 ( 30 % ) had histologically confirmed axillary metastases . although these invasive lesions may be clinically occult , they are not inconsequential and demand appropriate treatment . for those patients in this series undergoing mastectomy , the frequency of multicentric cancer in the same breast was 39 % . the past 10 years have witnessed a trend in surgical management away from the standard radical or modified radical mastectomy toward limited surgery and radiation therapy for so-called early breast cancer . when planning treatment for these occult lesions , one must consider their biological potential to metastasize as well as their propensity for multicentricity . 
pericardial fluid distribution : ct analysis . ultrasound and computed tomographic ( ct ) descriptions of pericardial effusion commonly indicate that fluid accumulates posteriorly within the pericardial sac before filling other areas . however , in a retrospective study of 68 cases of pericardial effusion identified on chest ct , most of the effusions were noted to be located solely or predominantly anterior to the right ventricle . anatomic features of the pericardium and its fibrous attachments , and the physical principle of buoyancy account for this observation . 
atrial-level shunts : sensitivity and specificity of mr in diagnosis . gated transverse cardiac magnetic resonance ( mr ) images from 31 patients with proved atrial septal defect ( asd ) and from 33 control subjects were reviewed retrospectively by a panel of cardiac radiologists . the panel , by consensus , determined the presence and the type of asd and assigned a confidence level for each diagnosis . a total of 97 % of asds were correctly identified at high levels of specificity ( primum , 100 % ; secundum , 96 % ; common atrium , 100 % ) . sensitivity and specificity are illustrated by receiver operating characteristic curves . pulmonary veins were demonstrated at rates exceeding those reported for echocardiography . further , all cases of anomalous pulmonary venous connection proved by angiography were also demonstrated by mr . thus , mr has high sensitivity and specificity in the diagnosis and location of atrial-level shunts and is at least as accurate as , and possibly more accurate than , traditional techniques for the diagnosis of anomalous pulmonary venous connection . 
pulmonary arteriography in the high-risk patient . pulmonary arteriography is an invasive but relatively safe diagnostic procedure . it is generally believed that the presence of pulmonary hypertension is one risk factor that increases the likelihood of a major complication . to assess the magnitude of risk , the reports on 1 , 434 patients who underwent pulmonary arteriography were retrospectively reviewed , and the occurrence of complications in the 388 ( 27 % ) patients with pulmonary hypertension was noted . major complications related to contrast material injection ( excluding allergic reactions ) occurred in 30 ( 2 % ) of the 1 , 434 examinations and included two deaths from acute cor pulmonale . six complications occurred in the 388 patients with pulmonary hypertension and / or elevated right ventricular end-diastolic pressure ( rvedp ) . the two deaths occurred in patients with severe pulmonary hypertension and elevated rvedp . most patients with severe cardiopulmonary compromise tolerated angiography well . the increased risk of studying this group of patients is modest and must be weighed against the potential therapeutic benefits to the patient . 
fentanyl and diazepam for analgesia and sedation during radiologic special procedures . fentanyl is a synthetic narcotic which , when administered intravenously , has a rapid onset and short duration of action . it produces less cardiovascular depression than either meperidine or morphine . experience with 100 examinations performed using intravenous fentanyl and diazepam for analgesia and sedation in adults is reviewed . there were no complications , and effective analgesia was obtained in all cases . fentanyl has distinct pharmacologic advantages over both morphine and meperidine for use in radiologic special procedures . 
tumor detection with phase-contrast imaging : an evaluation of clinical potential . the conspicuity of a variety of human tumors outside the liver , with a broad spectrum of histologic types , was evaluated using phase-contrast imaging ( proton chemical shift imaging , proton spectroscopy ) and the results compared with the data obtained using routine t1- and t2-weighted magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging sequences . in all cases , tumors were most conspicuous using the phase-contrast technique . in two instances , the tumors could be discerned only by this method , being undetectable by any routine mr pulse sequence . the use of phase-contrast imaging is recommended as an adjunct to standard mr sequences when evaluating for either the presence or extent of a tumor , regardless of its anatomic location or histologic type . 
albumin labeled with gd-dtpa as an intravascular , blood pool-enhancing agent for mr imaging : biodistribution and imaging studies . albumin is a macromolecule that remains largely confined to the vascular space after intravenous administration . human serum albumin was paramagnetically labeled by covalently binding from nine to 18 gadolinium-dtpa ( diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid ) chelates per protein molecule . this conjugate was tested in varying doses for in vivo biodistribution and effectiveness in tissue relaxation . after intravenous injection of the agent in rats , t1 relaxation times were significantly reduced in samples of the blood and in lung , heart , spleen , kidney , and brain tissue . these effects persisted at a relatively constant level for the next 30 minutes . in vivo magnetic resonance imaging of the heart and lungs of rats and rabbits confirmed the prolonged contrast-enhancing effect of the labeled albumin . these preliminary studies indicate that paramagnetically labeled macromolecules that distribute in the intravascular space may be effective for mr imaging evaluation of tissue blood volume . 
kidney changes after extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy : ct evaluation . computed tomography ( ct ) was performed in 50 patients before and after extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy ( eswl ) to determine the effects of eswl on the kidney and perinephric tissues . bilateral treatments were performed in three patients . post-eswl scans demonstrated subcapsular hematomas in eight ( 15 % ) patients ( two large , six small , none symptomatic ) and intrarenal hematomas in two ( 4 % ) patients . in three ( 6 % ) patients small subcapsular fluid collections of uncertain cause were seen . treated kidneys showed a statistically significant mean increase in size ( 9 % ) after eswl , as measured at the axial level of the major stone fragment . perinephric soft-tissue stranding and fascial thickening were seen in 37 ( 70 % ) of 53 treated renal fossae , with the changes ranging from mild to severe . the authors conclude that while most patients undergoing eswl will show some posttreatment abnormality on ct scans , the procedure appears to be associated with a low frequency of serious renal trauma . 
ferrite particles : a superparamagnetic mr contrast agent for the reticuloendothelial system . the potential of superparamagnetic ferrite particles as a contrast agent for magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was studied by in vitro mr spectroscopy and in vivo mr imaging in laboratory animals . after aqueous preparations of ferrite particles were administered intravenously , mr spectroscopy showed greatly decreased t2 relaxation times of liver and spleen , with only minimally altered t1 , and no changes in lung , kidney , or muscle . effects occurred within 30 minutes of injection and persisted for more than 6 months . mr imaging with pulse sequences that provide t2-dependent contrast demonstrated that ferrite produced profound signal loss from liver , spleen , and bone marrow . sequestration of ferrite particles in hepatic reticuloendothelial cells was confirmed by means of light and electron microscopy . because ferrite has a potent effect on mr signal and exhibits tissue-specific localization , it warrants further study as a contrast agent for mr imaging of the reticuloendothelial system ( i.e. , liver , spleen , and bone marrow ) . 
ferrite particles : a superparamagnetic mr contrast agent for enhanced detection of liver carcinoma . the potential of superparamagnetic ferrite particles to enhance detection of liver carcinoma at magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was studied with in vitro mr spectroscopy and in vivo mr imaging in animal models . after intravenous administration of ferrite , mr spectroscopy showed selective shortening of t2 relaxation times in normal liver but not in tumor . mr imaging showed that ferrite produced profound signal loss only from normal liver and not tumor ; thus , differences in signal intensity between liver and tumor were greatly enhanced , especially on pulse sequences with t2-dependent contrast . motion artifacts were reduced as well because of less signal from liver . microscopic analysis showed sequestration of ferrite particles in hepatic reticuloendothelial cells but not in hepatocytes or tumor tissue , and there was no evidence of cellular injury . ferrite particles efficiently and predictably enhance signal differences between normal liver and tumor and permit considerable latitude in selection of pulse sequence and timing parameters . thus , they have considerable promise as a tissue-specific mr contrast agent for improved detection of liver carcinoma . 
developmental features of the neonatal brain : mr imaging . part i . gray-white matter differentiation and myelination . to establish the normal appearance of the neonatal brain , 51 neonates , 29-42 weeks postconception , underwent magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging with a 0.6-t magnet in a prospective study . t1-weighted images were used to devise stages for the appearance of gray-white matter differentiation and extent of myelination . the results show that from 29 to 42 weeks postconception , changes in gray-white matter differentiation and myelination follow the stages in an orderly and predictable fashion . changes in white matter intensity appear related to progressive decrease in brain water content . myelination progresses cephalad from the brain stem at 29 weeks to reach the centrum semiovale by 42 weeks . delayed myelination , defined as the absence of myelin in the corona radiata by 37 weeks , was seen in nine infants with complicated perinatal courses . awareness of these developmental features should help to minimize misinterpretation of normal changes in the neonatal brain and lead to earlier detection of pathologic conditions , both with mr imaging and computed tomography . 
developmental features of the neonatal brain : mr imaging . part ii . ventricular size and extracerebral space . magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging with a 0.6-t magnet was performed on 51 neonates , aged 29-42 weeks postconception . in 45 neonates , the ventricular / brain ratio ( v / b ) at the level of the frontal horns and midbody of the lateral ventricles ranged from 0.26 to 0.34 . in six other infants a v / b of 0.36 or greater was associated with either cerebral atrophy or obstructive hydrocephalus . the width of the extracerebral space measured along specified points varied little in the neonatal period and ranged from 0 to 4 mm in 48 infants . extracerebral space widths of 5-6 mm were seen in three other infants with severe asphyxia . prominence of the subarachnoid space overlying the posterior parietal lobes is normal in neonates and should not be confused with cerebral atrophy . the authors conclude that v / b ratios of 0.26-0.34 and extracerebral space widths of 0-4 mm represent the normal range , and that neonates whose measurements exceed these values should be followed up . 
coarctation of the aorta in children undergoing angioplasty : pretreatment and posttreatment mr imaging . twelve children ( aged 4-15 years ) with suspected coarctation of the aorta or restenosis of the aorta after previous coarctation repair were considered for balloon angioplasty . gated magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging and cineangiography of the aorta were performed before angioplasty in all 12 children . in six of the nine children treated with angioplasty , mr imaging was performed between 1 day and 4 months later . correlation with cineangiography showed that mr imaging accurately delineated the site and characteristics of the coarctation before balloon angioplasty . after balloon dilation , mr demonstrated a significant increase in the diameter of the aorta at the coarctation site in four patients and no change in two patients . no complications such as aneurysm formation , dissection , or hematoma were detected as a result of balloon angioplasty in the follow-up mr studies . a decrease in the number and size of collateral vessels was identified in successfully treated patients . mr was useful in identifying patients who were unlikely to benefit from angioplasty , determining the appropriate balloon size for angioplasty , and noninvasively monitoring patients who underwent angioplasty . 
destructive noninfectious spondyloarthropathy in hemodialysis patients : a report of four cases . a rapidly progressive destructive spondyloarthropathy that resembles infectious spondylitis is reported in four patients undergoing long-term hemodialysis for chronic renal disease . its characteristics are similar to those of a recently recognized entity reported in ten patients in the rheumatology literature . it is believed that the alterations represent a crystal-induced arthropathy because these crystals are known to cause destructive arthropathy in extra-spinal sites , the association of crystal deposits and chronic renal disease in patients undergoing dialysis is well recognized , and calcium hydroxyapatite and calcium pyrophosphate have been recovered from biopsy material in two of the reported 14 cases . patients with chronic renal disease in whom a rapidly destructive spinal arthropathy develops should have a biopsy of the affected area to exclude infection . because a crystal-induced destructive process may simulate infection , crystalline analysis should also be performed on the biopsy material . 
focal fat deposition in axial bone marrow : mr characteristics . one hundred fifty-eight magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging studies of the spine were reviewed to assess the frequency and distribution of focal deposits with signal behavior typical of fat in the axial bone marrow . in addition , three fresh cadaveric spines were evaluated with mr imaging and subsequently sectioned for anatomic and histologic correlation . macroscopic evaluation of the sectioned cadaveric specimens revealed well-defined , yellow areas within the bone marrow that correlated precisely with localized zones of signal intensity characteristic of fat on mr images . histologic evaluation of these regions demonstrated typical focal fatty replacement of hematopoietic bone marrow . their appearance was related to age and the presence of pathologic changes such as spondylitis , kyphoscoliosis , and spondylosis . based upon these observations , focal fatty replacement of hematopoietic bone marrow appears to be a common phenomenon that should not be confused with localized disease processes . 
percutaneous nephrostolithotomy and lithotripsy : a multi-institutional survey of complications . a mail survey tabulating the results of some 8 , 595 percutaneous nephrostolithotomy and lithotripsy procedures ( from 62 institutions ) establishes an overall rate of failure , aborted procedure , and complications of 26 % ( 2 , 262 cases ) . data stratified as to the level of experience indicate a sharp improvement of the rate of failure and complications from 61 % during the learning period to 18 % thereafter . inexperience and faulty technique rate highest as a cause for failure or complication . underlying pathologic conditions and anatomic variants , while a relatively rare cause of failure or complication , can be diagnosed preoperatively and appropriate modification of technique instituted . the impact of technical factors such as the size of the postoperative nephrostomy tube is shown by statistical data . 
increased mr signal intensity in skeletal muscle adjacent to malignant tumors : pathologic correlation and clinical relevance . increased signal on t2-weighted magnetic resonance ( mr ) images has been demonstrated in skeletal muscle adjacent to neoplasms . clinical significance of this sign was evaluated by reviewing mr images of 50 patients with musculoskeletal disorders . increased signal in adjacent muscle was present in 22 patients , including 13 of 25 with primary or secondary malignancies of the musculoskeletal system . biopsy specimens from the affected area in 11 of these 13 patients revealed edema ( n = 8 ) more often than tumor invasion ( n = 3 ) . nine of 25 patients with nonneoplastic processes had increased signal intensity in skeletal muscle because of infection , myositis , or hematoma . in patients who have not undergone previous surgery or radiation therapy and are without an inflammatory mass , increased signal intensity may be a useful indicator of malignancy . 
quantitative ct applications : comparison of current scanners [ published erratum appears in radiology 1987 sep ; 164 ( 3 ) : 879 ] quantitative computed tomography ( qct ) has been used with variable success to measure the density of lung nodules , bone , and kidney stones and to determine volumes of tumor . commercially available ct scanners vary in their ability to quantify high-atomic-number ( high-z ) and low-z components accurately and reproducibly . sixteen models of ct scanners from eight manufacturers were compared as to their capability for qct . field uniformity was determined in phantoms simulating the human torso . for high-z ( 250 hu ) materials , the difference in ct numbers from the center to a radial distance of 13 cm ranged from 1 to 50 hu ( mean , 15 hu ) ; for water , the range was 0-15 hu . accuracy of computed radiographic localizer systems ranged from + / - 0.5 to + / - 2.0 mm without gantry angulation and up to + / - 4 mm with an angled gantry . a variety of artifacts also reduced qct accuracy and reproducibility . thus , not all ct scanners are equally suited to qct , and results on one machine may not be comparable to those of another unless correction factors are used . 
diagnostic radiology : usage and trends in the united states , 1964-1980 . from recent surveys and other sources , an estimate has been made of the utilization and trends in medical and dental diagnostic radiology as practiced in the united states from 1964 through 1980. trends in estimated number of diagnostic x-ray examinations , age distribution of patients , and number of diagnostic x-ray machines are presented . in the decade 1970-1980 , x-ray film sales increased 57 % , while the number of all types of hospital-based x-ray examinations increased by over 60 % . increases have occurred not only in hospital-based examinations but in private office examinations as well . in 1980 there were estimated to be 180 million medical x-ray examinations and 101 million dental x-ray examinations . 
economic impact of low-osmolality contrast agents on radiology procedures and departments . the financial impact at one institution of the use of low-osmolality contrast agents was analyzed . the impact is major , and several proposals for action are discussed . 
varicoceles : distal occlusion with coaxial catheter system . a coaxial balloon catheter system with an inner catheter and a steerable wire for selective catheterization and occlusive therapy is described . the system was designed primarily for distal sclerotherapy of varicoceles but can also be used in other arterial or venous systems . 
immature brain : spin-echo pulse sequence parameters for high-contrast mr imaging . appropriate spin-echo ( se ) pulse sequence parameters generate magnetic resonance ( mr ) images with very high gray matter / white matter contrast in neonates and young infants . in these young patients , long se sequences with a repetition time of 3 , 000-3 , 500 msec and multiple echoes with the longest echo time of 120-160 msec are employed to yield high-contrast images . a high-contrast mr image of a 1-month-old infant is presented . 
flexible balloon-expanded stent for small vessels . work in progress . a new type of flexible , balloon-expanded , stainless steel stent was designed for introduction into small vessels subject to motion . four stents placed in four dogs were patent at follow-up ( 4-8 weeks ) . a fibrocellular proliferation involving the intima and media was responsible for a 20 % -25 % luminal narrowing observed in all vessels with stents . the stent has longitudinal flexibility , which should permit its insertion into small peripheral , visceral , and coronary arteries . 
focal hepatic mass screening : mr imaging or ct scanning ? [ editorial ] 
lumbar diskography [ letter ] 
do n't discard diskography [ letter ] 
the role of diskography in the 1980s [ letter ] 
biliary stricture dilatation : multicenter review of clinical management in 73 patients [ letter ] 
complications of transluminal angioplasty [ letter ] 
pulmonary nodules : detection of calcification by linear and pluridirectional movement in tomographic study [ letter ] 
radiographic evaluation of blom-singer prosthesis [ letter ] 
liver metastasis detection : comparative sensitivities of mr imaging and ct scanning . twenty patients with known liver metastases were evaluated by unenhanced computed tomography ( ct ) , scans enhanced with ethiodized oil emulsion-13 ( eoe-13 ) , and magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging with three pulse sequences . spin-echo ( se ) 300 / 26 ( repetition time / echo time , in msec ) images prospectively demonstrated 95.4 % of the detectable liver metastases ; inversion recovery ( ir ) 1 , 500 / 100 ( repetition time / inversion time , in msec ) images revealed 90.8 % ; and eoe-13-enhanced ct scans showed 87.1 % . se 2 , 000 / 80 images showed 51.4 % , and unenhanced ct scans 49.6 % , of the metastases . the relationship of vascular anatomy to metastatic foci was best seen on se 300 / 26 images and eoe-ct scans . se 300 / 26 , ir 1 , 500 / 100 , and eoe-ct studies particularly improved detection of lesions in the 1-2-cm range compared with se 2 , 000 / 80 imaging or unenhanced ct scanning . se 300 / 26 and ir 1 , 500 / 100 sequences appear comparable to eoe-ct scans in demonstrating liver metastases and significantly superior to conventional ct scans . because eoe-13 is generally not available , these mr sequences should be the procedure of choice for the diagnosis of liver metastases . 
hypervascular hepatic metastases : ct evaluation . recent reports have indicated that non-contrast material-enhanced scans are of less value than urographic contrast material-enhanced studies in the computed tomographic ( ct ) evaluation of hepatic metastases . the authors retrospectively reviewed the ct scans of 28 patients with hypervascular liver metastases to determine whether these metastases were more likely to become isodense with the liver after contrast material enhancement , thus necessitating the performance of non-contrast-enhanced scanning . non-contrast-enhanced and contrast-enhanced incremental dynamic scanning was performed in patients with proved liver metastases from carcinoid tumors ( 13 patients ) , islet cell neoplasms ( ten patients ) , pheochromocytomas ( four patients ) , or renal cell carcinoma ( one patient ) . eleven of the 28 patients ( 39 % ) had metastases with non-contrast liver-to-lesion attenuation differences greater than 15 hu . these metastases subsequently became isodense or nearly isodense on contrast-enhanced scans . the authors conclude that non-contrast-enhanced ct scanning should be performed in patients with suspected liver metastases from tumors that are usually hypervascular . 
splenic trauma : evaluation with ct . fifty-five consecutive cases of surgically proved splenic injuries were evaluated with computed tomography ( ct ) . ct permitted correct identification of 54 splenic injuries , with one false-negative and three false-positive cases . in the single false-negative case and in two of the three false-positive cases , ct scans correctly indicated the presence of a large hemoperitoneum and other abdominal visceral lacerations and so correctly indicated the need for surgery . of the 55 proved cases , ct demonstrated hemoperitoneum in 54 ( 98 % ) , perisplenic clot in 47 ( 85 % ) , splenic laceration in 39 ( 71 % ) , and subcapsular hematoma in 13 ( 24 % ) . perisplenic clot can be distinguished from lysed blood in the peritoneal cavity and is a sensitive and specific sign of splenic trauma , even in the absence of visible splenic laceration . the authors conclude that ct is a highly reliable means of evaluating splenic trauma . 
cecal diverticulitis : evaluation with ct . the findings of computed tomographic ( ct ) examinations in seven patients with cecal diverticulitis are described and correlated with those of barium studies . the ct findings were linear and streaky densities in the pericecal fat compatible with pericecal inflammation ( seven cases ) , intramural abscess ( one case ) , thickening of the cecal wall ( two cases ) , and cecal diverticulum ( one case ) . barium studies , available in four patients , led to a correct diagnoses of diverticulitis in two cases . ct scanning is a sensitive means by which to detect cecal diverticulitis . the radiographic appearance of the disease , however , mimics that of appendicitis , unless more specific findings such as cecal diverticula or intramural abscess with adjacent inflammation is detected . ct and barium study are complementary methods of examination that improve our ability to diagnose cecal diverticulitis and its complications . 
barrett esophagus : decreased esophageal clearance shown by radionuclide esophageal scintigraphy . radionuclide esophageal scintigraphy is a sensitive test of esophageal function , but its usefulness is not well documented in barrett esophagus . this technique was prospectively studied in 27 patients with histologically proved barrett esophagus and 17 patients with biopsy-confirmed reflux esophagitis . the esophageal transit time and percentage of emptying were calculated . the only quantitative parameter of radionuclide esophageal scintigraphy to show a significant difference between the two conditions was the percentage of emptying , which was abnormal in 48 % of patients with barrett esophagus versus 31 % of patients with reflux esophagitis . in the latter group , the mean percentage of emptying approached normal ( 89.5 % ) , while in the former group it was decreased to 82.1 % ( p less than .05 ) . neither emptying parameter correlated with length of barrett esophagus . these data support the hypothesis of inherent esophageal dysmotility in barrett esophagus . half of the patients with this condition have impaired esophageal clearance and may benefit from drug therapy . 
results and implications of the hypertension detection and follow-up program . 
microbial synergy [ letter ] 
salmonella subdural empyema in a patient with brain metastasis [ letter ] 
scienceless to homeless [ editorial ] 
omnibus health bill : vaccines , drug exports , physician peer review [ news ] 
synchrotron x-rays probe coronary arteries [ news ] 
neurosciences advance in basic and clinical realms [ news ] 
research toward malaria vaccines . malaria exacts a toll of disease to people in the tropics that seems incomprehensible to those only familiar with medicine and human health in the developed world . the methods of molecular biology , immunology , and cell biology are now being used to develop an antimalarial vaccine . the plasmodium parasites that cause malaria have many stages in their life cycle . each stage is antigenically distinct and potentially could be interrupted by different vaccines . however , achieving complete protection by vaccination may require a better understanding of the complexities of b- and t-cell priming in natural infections and the development of an appropriate adjuvant for use in humans . 
ultraviolet irradiation transforms c3h10t1 / 2 cells to a unique , suppressible phenotype . transformation of c3h10t1 / 2 cells by exposure to ultraviolet ( uv ) irradiation followed by tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate ( tpa ) has been used as a model of two-stage carcinogenesis . however , cells cloned from uv-tpa-induced foci ( uv-tdtx cells ) had a unique phenotype . cloned uv-tdtx cells appeared transformed in pure culture but were unable to form foci when cocultured with c3h10t1 / 2 cells . however , in the presence of tpa , uv-tdtx cells form foci in mixed culture with c3h10t1 / 2 cells . this phenotype was the only one observed for uv-tpa transformants . these data suggest that communal suppression of cell division is a discrete phenomenon that must be overcome as one step in the multistage process of transformation , and this protocol permits the routine isolation of transformed cells responsive to density-dependent growth suppression . 
inhibition of secretion of hepatitis b surface antigen by a related presurface polypeptide . the presurface ( pres ) proteins of hepatitis b virus are structural components of the viral envelope that may play important roles in virion assembly and infectivity . they are specified by a large open reading frame that includes the coding region for the major surface ( s ) protein in its 3 ' half . translation of the pres proteins initiates upstream from the s region , giving rise to proteins that are composed of the s domain and an additional 163 ( pres1 ) or 55 ( pres2 ) amino acids . little is known about the biosynthesis and assembly of these proteins . the expression of the s and pres1 proteins was examined by transfecting cultured mammalian cells with viral dna and injecting synthetic messenger rna 's into xenopus oocytes . in contrast to the proteins encoded by the s region , the pres1 proteins are not detectably secreted into the culture medium . furthermore , when the s and pres1 proteins are synthesized together , secretion of the s proteins is specifically and strongly inhibited . the results suggest a unique molecular interaction during secretion of the s and pres proteins that may be important for virus assembly . 
characterization of t cell receptor gamma chain expression in a subset of murine thymocytes . while much information exists about the structure and function of the clonally distributed t cell receptor ( tcr ) alpha beta heterodimer , little is known about the gamma protein , the product of a third rearranging tcr gene . an antiserum to a carboxyl-terminal peptide common to several of the murine gamma chain constant regions and a monoclonal antibody to the murine t3 complex were used to identify products of this tcr gene family in a subpopulation of lyt2- , l3t4- thymocytes . this subpopulation does not express tcr alpha or full-length tcr beta messenger rna . the gamma chain is a 35-kilodalton ( kd ) protein that is disulfide-bonded to a 45-kd partner and is associated with the t3 complex . analysis of the glycosylation pattern of this thymic gamma chain revealed that the major variable region gamma ( v gamma ) gene transcribed in activated peripheral t cells is absent from this subpopulation . the cells that bear this second t cell receptor may therefore represent a distinct lineage differentiating within the thymus . 
physical theory of the orientation of astral mitotic spindles . a physical theory was developed for mitotic spindle orientation . this is important because spindle position is known to determine the placement of the cleavage furrow separating the offspring of a mitosis . the theory is based on an equation for the force exerted on spindle poles by the interaction of astral microtubules with the cell surface . expected spindle placements are positions of stable equilibrium where the net force and torque resulting from the action of the astral microtubules on the spindle poles is zero . the theory provides a novel physical explanation of cleavage patterns in the early embryo . 
fact versus supposition [ letter ] 
nimh review of fraud charge moves slowly [ news ] 
immune system theories on trial [ news ] 
" friends " dance for library of medicine [ news ] 
eec to cut animal use [ news ] 
omb slashes nih budget for fy 88 [ news ] 
making antibodies work like enzymes [ news ] 
a novel human gene closely related to the abl proto-oncogene . a dna sequence related to the abl proto-oncogene was identified in human placenta . molecular cloning and nucleotide sequence analysis revealed two putative exons whose predicted amino acid sequence was most homologous to the corresponding sequences of c-abl and v-abl but was related to other tyrosine kinase genes as well . the new sequence was localized by in situ hybridization and somatic cell genetic analysis to human chromosome 1q24-25 , which differs from the location of any previously identified tyrosine kinase gene . the detection of a novel 12-kb transcript by this gene in human normal and tumor cells establishes it as a new member of the tyrosine kinase family that is closely related to but distinct from c-abl . 
catalytic antibodies . monoclonal antibodies elicited to haptens that are analogs of the transition state for hydrolysis of carboxylic esters behaved as enzymic catalysts with the appropriate substrates . these substrates are distinguished by the structural congruence of both hydrolysis products with haptenic fragments . the haptens were potent inhibitors of this esterolytic activity , in agreement with their classification as transition state analogs . mechanisms are proposed to account for the different chemical behavior of these antibodies with two types of ester substrates . the generation of an artificial enzyme through transition state stabilization by antibodies was thus demonstrated . these studies indicate a potentially general approach to catalyst design . 
selective chemical catalysis by an antibody . the immunoglobulin mopc167 , which binds the transition state analog p-nitrophenylphosphorylcholine with high affinity , catalyzed the hydrolysis of the corresponding carbonate 1. mopc167 catalysis displayed saturation kinetics with catalytic constant ( kcat ) = 0.4 min-1 and michaelis constant ( km ) = 208 microm , showed substrate specificity , and was inhibited by p-nitrophenylphosphorylcholine . the rate of the reaction was first order in hydroxide ion concentration between ph 6.0 and 8.0 . the lower limit for the rate of acceleration of hydrolysis by the antibody above the uncatalyzed reaction was 770. this study begins to define the rules for the generation of catalytic antibodies . 
lipoprotein mutations in pigs are associated with elevated plasma cholesterol and atherosclerosis . a strain of pigs bearing three immunogenetically defined lipoprotein-associated markers ( allotypes ) , designated lpb5 , lpr1 , and lpu1 , has marked hypercholesterolemia on a low fat , cholesterol-free diet . unlike individuals with familial hypercholesterolemia or whhl rabbits , the affected pigs have normal low density lipoprotein receptor activity . the animals , by 7 months of age , have extensive atherosclerotic lesions in all three coronary arteries . this strain of pig represents an animal model for atherosclerosis and hypercholesterolemia associated with mutations affecting the structures of plasma lipoproteins . one of the variant apolipoproteins , lpb5 , is apolipoprotein-b . a second variant apolipoprotein ( lpr1 ) , termed apo-r , is a 23-kilodalton protein present in both the very low density ( d less than 1.006 g / ml ) and the very high density ( d greater than 1.21 g / ml ) fractions of pig plasma . isoforms of this protein correlate with two lpr alleles , lpr1 and lpr2 . the lpr genes segregate independently of the lpb5 and lpu1 alleles . the lpu1 allotype is a component of low density lipoprotein and is genetically linked to lpb5 . 
lipid domains in fluid membranes : a quick-freeze differential scanning calorimetry study [ published erratum appears in science 1987 oct 23 ; 238 ( 4826 ) : 550 ] the application of rapid-freezing techniques to differential scanning calorimetry ( dsc ) provides a new approach for understanding the organization of lipids in biomembranes . use of quick-freeze dsc on membranes of mixed lipid composition supports the existence of nonrandom distributions of lipids ( domains ) in fluid bilayers . in addition to allowing investigations on the organization of lipids in fluid bilayers , the quick-freeze technique now allows calorimetric studies to be carried out on mammalian membranes which , because of their high cholesterol content , have not been previously amenable to study by dsc . 
elimination of anesthetics from rabbit brain . 
histones and metal-binding domains . 
ethics , technology , and the high cost of dying : a public forum . to increase public awareness of the complexity of the issues surrounding care for the terminally ill , a county medical society and a local hospital council co-sponsored a public forum in october 1985. panel members discussed the case of a terminally ill cancer patient from the medical , psychologic , economic , legal , and family perspectives . panel members stressed the importance of helping the dying person to choose the preferred treatment and to achieve an emotionally satisfying death . the audience responded by pointing out the barriers to achieving death with dignity , which include poverty , lack of social support , and difficulty in facing and talking about death . in an evaluation questionnaire , the audience indicated that the emotional aspects and the communication problems involved in care for the terminally ill caused them more concern than the legal and ethical issues . 
alcoholism : the missed diagnosis . physicians fail to recognize the early signs and symptoms of alcoholism in their patients . this results in delays in the proper diagnosis and treatment for alcoholism , the underlying cause for many common complaints . reasons for missing the diagnosis include inadequate education opportunities for physicians in the field of chemical dependency , the physician 's attitude toward alcoholics , and the alcoholic 's own denial of his addiction . there are steps that physicians can take to increase their ability to identify alcoholism as the underlying cause of the patient 's complaint . 
infections of the lower extremities due to gas-forming and non-gas-forming organisms [ published erratum appears in south med j 1987 mar ; 80 ( 3 ) : 319 ] from 1977 to 1984 , 87 above- and below-knee amputations were done on 77 patients for ischemic ulcerations and gangrene of the lower extremities . the overall three-month mortality was 14 % and was mainly related to generalized atherosclerosis . patients having infections with gas formations were more likely to be diabetic ( 80 % vs 15 % , p less than .01 ) , have clinical sepsis and a higher preoperative wbc ( 19 , 000 vs 12 , 600 / cu mm , p less than .01 ) , and have a higher mortality ( 40 % vs 12 % , p less than .05 ) than those with infections due to non-gas-forming organisms . mixed bacterial flora were cultured from most wounds . we conclude that infections with gas formation may be due to either clostridial or nonclostridial organisms , mortality is higher if gas accumulates and if the patient is diabetic , gas is more likely to accumulate in infected extremities of diabetic patients , and the combination of gas formation and diabetes is highly lethal . 
bacteremia during bronchoalveolar lavage . we prospectively evaluated the incidence of bacteremia during fiberoptic bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) and its relationship to postlavage symptoms in 12 volunteers . qualitative and quantitative blood cultures were obtained before and during bal . three persons had qualitative blood cultures positive for organisms typical of normal skin flora . quantitative blood cultures done simultaneously were negative . approximately 42 % of our subjects had postlavage symptoms , but no correlation was found between bacteremia and the occurrence of postlavage symptoms . our results confirm the relative safety of bal and the low incidence of bal-associated bacteremia . 
gram-negative bacillary meningitis in the adult : review of 39 cases . from 1976 through 1984 , the period covered in this report , we reviewed our total experience with gram-negative meningitis in adult patients , looking especially at how treatment and mortality had changed . thirty-nine adults had 45 episodes of gram-negative meningitis . twenty-five patients had had a dura-arachnoid disruption , 12 a septic episode , and two a bacterial mastoiditis . the overall mortality was 35.9 % . thirteen patients were treated with a full course of intrathecal antibiotics ( five or more days ) and eight patients with an abbreviated course ( one or two doses ) . the use of chloramphenicol was associated with poor patient outcome , a finding consistent with both experimental and clinical findings of others . 
splenorrhaphy in patients with abdominal trauma . splenorrhaphy has become increasingly used for management of the traumatized spleen . this approach has been advocated to obviate the potential for fulminant postsplenectomy sepsis . we reviewed the records of 42 patients with penetrating or blunt trauma treated by splenectomy or splenorrhaphy at norfolk general hospital between 1979 and 1983. twenty-six had splenectomy and 16 had splenorrhaphy . we evaluated age , sex , mechanism of injury , associated injuries , operative technique of splenorrhaphy , perioperative fluid requirements , and intraoperative and postoperative complications . patients who had splenectomy had more associated injuries and more intraoperative hypotension , required more fluid replacement , and had more postoperative complications . patients who had splenectomy were in a more unstable condition than those having splenorrhaphy ; 22 of the 26 had an unsalvageable spleen . there were no complications related to splenorrhaphy . in stable patients with a potentially salvageable injured spleen , an attempt should be made to repair it before resorting to splenectomy . no added risk appears to accrue from this approach . 
major surgical procedures for gynecologic malignancy in elderly women . we review 89 patients more than 75 years old who had major operations for various gynecologic malignancies . the recent routine use of perioperative intensive care decreased hospital mortality from 8.9 % to 3.2 % , and helped in decreasing and anticipating intraoperative and postoperative cardiorespiratory complications . availability of visiting nurses since 1980 decreased the mean hospital stay from 30.2 to 24.4 days in patients who had radical vulvectomy . there were no deaths among 11 patients who subsequently had surgical reexploration for recurrent or new disease . fifty-two of the 89 patients survived more than three years with no limitations resulting from the operations . when indicated , major surgical procedures for gynecologic malignancy in elderly women can be done safely , especially when the patient is evaluated and managed in a well staffed surgical intensive care unit . 
gastric bypass surgery for obesity : weight loss , psychosocial outcome , and morbidity one and three years later . in two nonoverlapping cohorts of consecutive patients receiving gastric bypass for obesity , we interviewed 100 patients one year after operation and 60 patients at three years . weight loss among patients in both cohorts averaged 45 kg ; all had improved physical and emotional health , had stable marriages , and had made satisfactory eating adjustments . factors contributing to successful outcome include the technical skill and experience of the surgical team , adequate preoperative patient preparation , extensive postoperative instruction , medical and dietary follow-up , and patient support groups . gastric bypass was found to be a safe , effective procedure without the medical morbidity associated with jejunoileal bypass . 
iatrogenic hand injuries in outpatients . potentially serious iatrogenic hand injuries occurred in three patients in a general medicine practice . all resulted from technologic advances in patient care . each resulted in substantial economic and emotional costs . one patient sustained a serious residual disability . such injuries have rarely been reported in the past , but advances in medical technology and changes in reimbursement patterns may make outpatient iatrogenic hand injuries increasingly common . physicians must be alert to such injuries . 
carotid revascularization after cervical irradiation . carotid revascularization after cervical irradiation is often made more difficult by decreased vascularity , development of fibrosis , and loss of covering tissue by previous surgery . we present three cases to illustrate alternative approaches to carotid revascularization in these circumstances . one case describes the usual direct approach to carotid endarterectomy . the second describes a saphenous vein bypass from the subclavian artery to the internal carotid artery , while the third describes a saphenous vein carotid-carotid bypass following carotid blowout . we discuss advantages of each approach and describe characteristics of the changes that follow cervical irradiation . 
bolus intramuscular methylprednisolone acetate as a therapeutic adjunct in rheumatoid arthritis . eighty adult patients with classical or definite rheumatoid arthritis were given 200 bolus injections of intramuscular methylprednisolone acetate ( mpa ) over four years . this was used strictly as a therapeutic adjunct for polyarticular flares ( greater than or equal to 5 swollen joints ) , not as a singular form of long-term treatment . good clinical responses , lasting an average of eight weeks , were obtained in the vast majority of patients . severe toxicity was minimal . postbolus responses to intravenous acth stimulation were measured in 12 patients . we believe that intramuscular bolus injections , used cautiously in carefully selected patients with rheumatoid arthritis , are relatively useful , convenient , inexpensive , and safe . 
hemoglobin e : another cause of microcytic anemia in north america . the influx of southeast asians has expanded the differential diagnosis of microcytic , hypochromic anemia in this country . we describe four patients with hemoglobin e , all of whom had microcytic , hypochromic anemia . hemoglobin e is benign in both the heterozygous and homozygous states . on routine hemoglobin electrophoresis at ph 8.4 , hemoglobin e will migrate near the hemoglobin c and hemoglobin a2 regions . if hemoglobin e is suspected , the laboratory should be advised to do electrophoresis on citrate agar at ph 6.3 . 
minnesota multiphasic personality inventory as a predictor of operative results in thoracic outlet syndrome . twenty-one women and four men who had been operated upon for thoracic outlet syndrome were evaluated for symptom relief , and the results were blindly correlated with their scores on a minnesota multiphasic personality inventory ( mmpi ) . of the 14 patients who had abnormal results on the mmpi , five rated themselves improved , seven unchanged , and two worse as a result of surgery . of the 11 patients who had a normal mmpi , ten rated themselves improved and one unchanged ( p less than .05 ) . patients were then divided into two groups--those who were improved and those who were not improved by surgery--and mean mmpi scale scores were obtained for each group . there were significant differences for mmpi scales 1 and 3 ( p less than .05 ) . 
intern ranking versus subsequent house officer performance . the rankings of candidates for pediatric internship by the pediatric intern selection committee ( isc ) of the university of virginia medical center were compared with subsequent performance rankings of house officers by faculty members and chief residents . although a positive correlation was found between the rankings , the absolute magnitude of the correlation coefficients was relatively low and not statistically significant . we discuss factors responsible for the poor correlation and suggestions for iscs . 
successful treatment of neuroleptic malignant syndrome with bromocriptine . from our four cases , we conclude that prompt diagnosis , intensive care monitoring and support , and early use of bromocriptine can markedly reduce the duration of the symptom complex of neuroleptic malignant syndrome , as well as significantly improve the 20 % mortality previously reported . 
neuroleptic malignant syndrome : three episodes with different drugs . this is an illustrative case of a patient with neuroleptic malignant syndrome whom we believe is the first described in the world 's literature to have this syndrome on three occasions , each time after having received a different neuroleptic agent . 
surgical implications of actinomycosis . we have described two patients with abdominal actinomycosis , one with extensive intra-abdominal and thoracic disease mimicking metastatic carcinoma , and the other having the rarely described clinical entity of retroperitoneal disease without evidence of intra-abdominal involvement . both patients responded well to appropriate therapy , but had unnecessary surgical procedures . the surgeon 's role in cases of actinomycosis should be limited to the provision of a diagnosis when necessary . 
caroli 's disease : new diagnostic and therapeutic approaches . cystic dilatations of the intrahepatic and extrahepatic biliary trees are common congenital anomalies that frequently require surgical intervention . we have presented a case of caroli 's disease in which an accurate diagnosis was made noninvasively preoperatively , using computerized tomography , ultrasonography , and cholescintigraphy . 
unrecognized esophageal placement of endotracheal tubes . unrecognized esophageal placement of endotracheal tubes during general anesthesia or in apneic unanesthetized patients is not an uncommon occurrence . allowing this mishap to proceed to asphyxia and catastrophe is inexcusable . if one is uncertain , proper placement can be quickly verified by mouth-to-tube insufflation of a subject 's lungs with one 's own expired air immediately after intubation . this method of verification may be useful in areas other than the operating room , where intubations are performed for resuscitation or airway control . 
nasopharyngeal dermoid with an unusual presentation . 
infarction of the quadriceps muscle : a complication of diabetic vasculopathy . accelerated atherosclerosis is a common and recognized complication of diabetes mellitus . we have reported the fifth case of spontaneous infarction of a portion of the quadriceps muscle group in a patient with diabetes mellitus . 
breast biopsy technique : a counterplea for breast conservation [ letter ] 
infarction of the omentum in pregnancy [ letter ] 
brain changes on computed tomography following metrizamide myelography . significance and therapeutic implications . three cases of seizures and marked behavioral changes that occurred after intrathecal metrizamide administration are reported . in each case a cranial computed tomographic scan obtained within 24 hours of the ictus showed hyperdensity of the gray matter , and created an optical illusion of diffuse white matter edema . the literature on adverse reactions and their pathogenesis and on brain parenchymal penetration of metrizamide is reviewed . 
the spine in 3d . computed tomographic reformation from 2d axial sections . a new program ( 3d83 , general electric ) was used to reformat three-dimensional ( 3d ) images from two-dimensional ( 2d ) computed tomographic axial scans in 18 patients who had routine scans of the spine . the 3d spine images were extremely true to life and could be rotated around all three principle axes ( constituting a movie ) , so that an illusion of head-motion parallax was created . the benefit of 3d reformation with this program is primarily for preoperative planning . it appears that 3d can also effectively determine the patency of foraminal stenosis by reformatting in hemisections . currently this program is subject to several drawbacks that require user interaction and long reconstruction time . with further improvement , 3d reformation will find increasing clinical applicability . 
roentgenographic findings of the cervical spine in asymptomatic people . the purpose of this study was to determine the incidence and severity of degenerative changes seen on lateral roentgenograms in 200 asymptomatic men and women in five age groups with an age range of 20-65 years and to determine the normal values of cervical lordosis and spinal canal sagittal diameters and their relationship to degenerative changes . it was found that by age 60-65 , 95 % of the men and 70 % of the women had at least one degenerative change on their roentgenograms . a small sagittal diameter correlated with the presence of degenerative changes at the same disc level , and the strongest correlation was with the size of the posterior osteophytes at c5-6 ( r = 0.52 ) . cervical lordosis measurements did not relate to degenerative changes except for subjects over age 50 with moderate or severe intervertebral narrowing . it is important to realize that although roentgenographic abnormalities represent structural changes in the spine , they do not necessarily cause symptoms . 
posterior fusion for atlanto-axial subluxation in rheumatoid arthritis . posterior cervical fusion was performed in 34 patients with advanced rheumatoid atlanto-axial subluxation . atraumatic surgical technique was used with local anesthesia and without skull traction . intractable occipital rhizopathy and long-tract signs were the main indications . anterior atlanto-axial subluxation in 28 patients was operated on with posterior fusion of c1-c2 . superior migration of the odontoid process into the foramen magnum in six patients was treated with posterior fusion of occiput c1-c2 . immediate mobilization in a plastic brace followed surgery . average follow-up was 3 years . all patients became symptom-free , except for three who had remaining long-tract signs . bony fusion was achieved in 17 patients ; stable fibrous fusion , in 8 patients ; and pseudoarthrosis , in 4 patients . there were no major postoperative complications . five deaths occurred after 1-2 years from unrelated causes . 
radiographic vs . direct measurements of the spinal canal of the thoracolumbar junctional region ( t10-l1 ) of the spine . midsagittal diameter ( msd ) and interpedicular distance ( ipd ) in the thoracolumbar junctional region ( t10-l1 ) of 24 male cadaveric spines were measured both from radiographs and directly from bones after removal of the soft tissues in order to assess the accuracy of plain radiographs . in addition surface areas of the vertebral canals were measured also from bone samples . it was found that the mean difference between bone and radiographic measurements in the ipd on different vertebral levels was 1.0 mm ( r = 0.98 ) . the msd was a more difficult measurement , but the correlation coefficient was still 0.70 , the mean difference being 0.7 mm or less . the sum of the msd and ipd showed good relationship with the cross sectional area of the spinal canal , and the correlation coefficient was 0.77 ( p less than 0.001 ) . 
cadaveric study comparing the stability of upper distraction hooks used in harrington instrumentation . many different designs of upper distraction hooks for use in harrington instrumentation are available . there is no published evidence to date to support the use of one hook in preference to another . this study compares the distraction force required to dislodge the three most commonly used designs of harrington upper distraction hook . in cadavers the force required for failure of the plain , ribbed , and bifid hooks was compared as were the modest of vertebral fracture at the time of cut out . the bifid hook required a significantly greater distraction force to fracture the lamina , and the pattern of fracture was more extensive than it was with the plain or ribbed hooks . 
observations on the current and future surgical management of hydatid disease affecting the vertebrae . five cases of hydatid disease affecting the vertebrae are described . clinical features , radiologic appearance , and poor prognosis are emphasized . four patients had some degree of neurologic deficit at the time of presentation and in three cases there was an increasing kyphosis . in two patients , spinal instrumentation with harrington apparatus supplemented removal of hydatid material , and its use improved the previous neurologic deficit with stabilization of kyphosis . the antihelmintic drug mebendazole was used in two cases . 
centrode patterns in the lumbar spine . baseline studies in normal subjects . segmental spinal instability is a known cause of back pain , but no method of accurately quantifying instability exists . the movement of complex joints with rotational and translational components ( such as the lumbar motion segment ) is tracked by a pathway of instantaneous centers of rotation , or a centrode . instability , ie , excessive and / or erratic movement , is reflected by increased centrode length in cadaver studies . this study describes an in vivo method that precisely determines the centrode pattern and reports the results for 21 normal male volunteers who were studied at the l4-5 and l5-s1 levels . each volunteer underwent lateral radiographs of the lumbar spine . high speed films were used and six positions , from full extension to full flexion , were recorded . acetate tracings and contour matching techniques recorded the relative positions of the vertebral bodies on each film . multiple tracings of each radiograph , combined with a digitizer and computer , were used to improve precision in the calculated centrode patterns . centrode lengths measured 43.7 mm and 55.9 mm , respectively , for the l4-5 and l5-s1 levels . this study demonstrates that precise centrode pattern analysis for sagittal plane motion of the lumbar spine is possible in vivo . studies are under way to determine whether this technique will be useful as a clinical test in diagnosing early segmental instability of the lumbar spine in patients with low-back pain . 
back pain and trunk list . an association of trunk list with back pain was recorded in 100 patients , 5.6 % of those attending a back pain clinic . twice as many patients listed to the left as to the right . a total of 49 patients fulfilled the criterion of a symptomatic lumbar disc lesion , and 20 required surgical excision of the disc . the side of the list was not related to the side of the sciatica nor to the topographic position of the disc in relation to the nerve root . there is some evidence that the side of the list may be related to hand or leg dominance . 
toward uniformity in evaluating results of lumbar spine operations . a paradigm applied to posterior lumbar interbody fusions . criteria for evaluating the results of treating lumbar spinal disorders vary widely . comparative analyses of outcome among different therapy protocols are compromised by the diversity among the groups studied , as well as by the varying methods of measuring success . a rating scale is proposed based on the economic and functional status of the patient before and after treatment ; anatomic results can be correlated . application of this method to 34 patients who had undergone posterior lumbar interbody fusion showed a favorable response in 85 % with a fusion incidence of 94 % . this rating scale is easily applicable and can delineate pre- and postoperative conditions of patients on a semiquantitative basis . a more universal acceptance of common criteria for judging the outcome of lumbar spinal operations will facilitate comparisons among various methods of treatment . 
the management of patients with back pain and idiopathic vertebral sclerosis . twenty-two patients with severe back pain associated with radiologic evidence of vertebral sclerosis are reported . there were 19 women and 3 men ; the average age was 42 years . duration of pain averaged 4.3 years . the characteristic radiologic findings were diffuse sclerosis of the anterior inferior portion of the vertebral body and narrowing of the adjacent disc space . there was no extension of the sclerosis beyond the vertebral body , no paravertebral mass , and no loss of vertebral height . these radiologic characteristics , in conjunction with other clinical findings , should permit a diagnosis without the need for biopsy . 
fracture of the axis associated with vertebral artery injury . a case report . 
anterior approach for removal of spinal angiolipoma . a case report . 
solitary osteochondroma of the spine . 
synovial sarcoma of the thoracic spine . a case report . 
acute cauda equina syndrome secondary to an arteriovenous malformation of the spinal cord . a case report . 
harrington instrumentation into the lumbar spine . technique for preservation of normal lumbar lordosis . 
a new device to reduce intra-abdominal pressure during lumbar surgery . 
operations for herniated lumbar discs . a follow-up study 2-5 years after surgery . 
pyarthrosis of the sacroiliac joint presenting as lumbar radiculopathy . a case report . 
the treatment of a symptomatic vertebral hemangioma by radiotherapy . a case report . 
severe scoliosis associated with fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva . a report of two cases . 
occipito-cervico-thoracic spine fusion in a patient with occipito-cervical dislocation and survival . a 16-year-old man with occipito-cervical dislocation and survival was treated at rancho los amigos medical center . the patient had ligamentous instability between the occiput and the cervical spine . his neurologic level was complete at the c1 level , and he was dependent on a mechanical respirator . sternocleidomastoid and other neck musculature were not functional . a fusion of the occiput to cervical spine and cervical spine to thoracic spine was performed to obviate the need for external neck support . the patient went on to fuse and is now independently mobile with a tongue-switch driven wheelchair with a respirator trailer 2 years after injury . the patient has no need for external support as a result of his fusion . 
internal disc disruption . a challenge to disc prolapse fifty years on . 
partitioning of the l4-l5 dynamic moment into disc , ligamentous , and muscular components during lifting . this work describes a dynamic model of the low back that incorporates extensive anatomical detail of a three-dimensional musculo-ligamentous-skeletal system . the reactive moment about l4-l5 , determined from sagittal plane lifts , was partitioned into restorative components provided by the disc in bending , ligament strain , and active muscle contraction . skeletal kinematics were obtained from cine analysis of markers on the rib cage and pelvis . the musculature was driven from surface emg collected from six sites . when compared with past models , features of this model included improved anatomical modeling , improved monitoring of vertebral motion unit kinematics , improved estimation of neural activation of the musculature , and consideration of the effects of muscle length , velocity , cross-sectional area and passive elasticity in force estimation . estimations of l4-l5 disc compression and shear were , on average , 16.2 % and 42.5 % lower , respectively , than those calculated from a simple 5 cm erector tissue moment arm length . there was no need to invoke intra-abdominal pressure or other contentious compression-reducing mechanisms . muscle activity , particularly that of the sacrospinalis , dominated the generation of the restorative moment . ligaments played a very minor role in the lifts studied . high muscle loads are consistent with the common clinical observation of muscle strain often produced by load handling . 
discitis following chemonucleolysis . an experimental study . although infection following intradiscal injections has been recognized as a distinct entity , discitis following chemonucleolysis has been often attributed to a chemical reaction from chymopapain . in the first part of this study the effect of chymopapain and conray 280 on a wide range of bacteria was measured in vitro . chymopapain was found to have a bactericidal effect on all bacteria tested , which was more pronounced with gram positive organisms , whereas conray 280 showed very little if any antibacterial effect after 48 hours . the aim of the second part of the study was to test the hypothesis that discitis following intradiscal chymopapain injection is due to infection and not to a chemical reaction . multiple level lumbar intradiscal injections were carried out in eight mature sheep . sixteen discs in four sheep were injected with a mixture of reconstituted chymopapain and a staphylococcus epidermidis suspension . sixteen discs in another four sheep were injected with reconstituted chymopapain only . all sheep were sacrificed at 6 weeks and the discs and end-plates were examined radiologically , and by histopathology and nuclear material was cultured for bacteria . none of the controls showed any evidence of discitis , whereas all sheep injected with bacteria had typical radiologic and histopathologic changes of discitis . however , in most cases in which end-plate lesions were well established there was no evidence of bacteria at sacrifice . these findings support the opinion that discitis following intradiscal injection is always due to infection introduced by the needle tip . 
the biochemistry of the action of chymopapain in relief of sciatica . a study has been made of the mechanism of action of intradiscal injections of preparations of chymopapain in the treatment of sciatica . such preparations were found to contain at least four distinct proteins , but enzymatically active chymopapain was the component mainly responsible for releasing glycosaminoglycan from cartilaginous tissue . previous suggestions that an electrostatic interaction between chymopapain and glycosaminoglycan is important to the action of injected enzyme were not supported by the finding that both positively and negatively charged forms of chymopapain efficiently released glycosaminoglycan from cartilaginous tissue . in contrast , cysteine alone did not cause release of glycosaminoglycan . chymopapain was found to be inhibited efficiently by the protein inhibitors , cystatin c and low molecular weight kininogen in vitro , and the possible relevance of this finding to the efficacy and safety of chemonucleolysis is discussed . 
abnormal connective tissue degrading enzyme patterns in prolapsed intervertebral discs . the collagenolytic enzyme systems in the human , normal , and prolapsed intervertebral discs have been studied . normal discs obtained postmortem contained a novel collagenase with specificity toward type ii collagen and gelatin but with little or no activity against type i collagen . a method whereby enzymes are detected quantitatively in extracts of human tissue using specific substrates , without prior chromatographic separation of the enzymes , has been developed and used to study 14 normal discs and 35 surgically excised prolapsed discs . no differences were observed between annulus and nucleus extracts of normal discs either in the pattern of enzymes or the quantity . the intermediate zone between nucleus and annulus was excised and was not tested . highly significant differences were observed between the enzyme patterns of the normal and prolapsed discs . the major collagenolytic activity of normal discs is against type ii collagen and 1 alpha 2 alpha 3 alpha collagen , there is little activity toward type i collagen and virtually none toward elastin . conversely , the prolapsed disc is more highly active against the substrates elastin and type i collagen than against type ii collagen or 1 alpha 2 alpha 3 alpha collagen . the individual patterns of enzymes of the 35 prolapsed discs were virtually identical . similarly there was little internal variation between the patterns of enzymes extracted from discs , obtained postmortem , which were apparently normal . the striking difference between the normal and prolapsed disc could be an important factor in the pathogenesis of disc prolapse . 
analysis of magnetic resonance images from normal and degenerate lumbar intervertebral discs . degenerate discs can be identified quantitatively by measurement of magnetic resonance ( mr ) relaxation times . mr images have been recorded from 16-year-old and 82-year-old cadaveric l3-4 discs at the highest resolution attainable with a picker international mr imaging system operating at 0.26 tesla . by recording images with a series of spin-echo and / or saturation-recovery sequences of differing time intervals , the values for sample magnetization , m infinity , and the t1 and t2 relaxation times , have been calculated from each pixel in the mr image . the distribution of m infinity values shows the relative degrees of hydration in different regions of the disc while the corresponding t1 and t2 values are sensitive to the chemical environment of the water molecules . images from cadaveric discs allowed the nucleus pulposus and annulus fibrosus to be distinguished clearly , and the laminated structure of the annulus could be seen . loss of water from the nucleus during aging was demonstrated by a reduction and change in the distribution of the m infinity values for an 82-year-old disc , as compared with a 16-year-old disc . values of t1 and t2 indicated a difference in the chemical environment of water molecules in the nucleus pulposus and annulus fibrosus ; the extent of this difference was much greater for younger than for older discs . high-resolution mr images from discs of living subjects showed almost as much detail as those from experimental specimens , but in the latter , the laminated structure of the annulus was resolved . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
1h nuclear magnetic resonance study of intervertebral discs . a preliminary report . in vitro 1h pulse nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ) studies on human intervertebral disc tissues were performed to establish the characteristics of relaxation processes . the spin-lattice relaxation time , bound water and dry matter content were measured . biopsy material from fresh cadavers was taken from different discs along the spinal column and from different sectors of some single discs . it is suggested that the measured parameters correlate with the biomechanical behavior of discs , which in turn is influenced by function , by exposure to physical stresses , or by aging . 
a concept of illness tested as an improved basis for surgical decisions in low-back disorders . in previous studies a model of illness based on analysis of the relationship between the different elements of illness at one pont in time was developed . this study prospectively tested this model and a number of associated hypotheses in 185 patients who had various types of surgery for low-back disorders : 49 had chemonucleolysis ; 91 , first-time disc operations ; 20 , fusions ; and 25 , repeat operations . identical pre- and postoperative evaluations were performed with 96 % of patients independently reviewed at an average of 26 months after surgery . the authors analyzed how physical and psychologic factors interacted to affect the outcome of surgery and attempted to explain other conflicting reports of how either physical or psychologic factors determined surgical outcome . it was found that physical outcome was almost entirely determined by physical factors , ie , accuracy of diagnosis of a surgically treatable lesion , operative findings , surgical procedure , and avoidance of complications . the most important psychologic disturbances were distress and abnormal illness behavior that could affect surgical outcome indirectly if inappropriate illness behavior led to inappropriate surgery and also directly affected subjective judgments of pain or disability--by patient or observer . return to work was strongly influenced by additional occupational factors . all the main hypotheses were confirmed and this model or concept of illness is proposed as the basis for a fundamental reconsideration of clinical management and surgical decisions in low-back disorders . 
medical , social and occupational history as risk indicators for low-back trouble in a general population . sixty-eight medical , social , and occupational history variables were analyzed in a general population of 442 men and 478 women , aged 30 , 40 , 50 , and 60 years to identify possible indicators for first-time experience and recurrence or persistence of low-back trouble ( lbt ) during a 1-year follow-up . variables that in univariate analyses showed statistically significant indications for future lbt were subjected to stepwise logistic regression analyses . the most important indicators for recurrence or persistence of lbt thus identified were , for men , intermittent claudication , restlessness , or other discomfort in the lower limbs , frequent headache , and living alone . for women , the corresponding indicators were rumbling of " the stomach " and feeling of fatigue . for first-time experience of lbt , the indicators identified by the regression analyses were frequent pain in the top of the stomach , previous hospitalizations and operations , daily smoking , and a long distance from home to work . the result suggests that the population likely to experience future lbt does not enjoy good general health even prior to its first lbt episode , and this , in turn , may be due to greater psychosocial pressure . 
the relationship of degeneration of the intervertebral disc to mechanical loading conditions on lumbar vertebrae . degeneration of lumbar intervertebral discs is typical for the aging process and contributes to common low-back problems . it is likely to influence vertebrae by changing the mechanical interaction within each motion segment . this study focuses on the influence of disc degeneration on the mechanism of load transmission through the lumbar vertebral body . effective stresses , ways of load transmission and failure modes of vertebral body were examined in cases of healthy and degenerated discs . the stress analysis was performed using the finite element method . for healthy discs , the highest effective stresses were found in the center of bony end-plates . for degenerated discs , they were found in the lateral aspects of the end-plates , in the cortical wall , and also in the vertebral body rims . however , regardless of the disc condition , the highest effective stresses do not occupy the whole thickness of the endplate and / or the cortical wall , but are concentrated near the spongy core . ways of load transmission through the lumbar vertebral body and modes of eventual damage to it are also strongly influenced by the disc condition . 
the multifidus muscle in patients with lumbar disc herniation . a histochemical and morphometric analysis of intraoperative biopsies . structural changes in the multifidus muscle were analyzed in 41 patients operated on for herniated intervertebral disc . twelve cadavers served as controls . the two main findings follow : both in the patients and in the controls the type 2 muscle fibers were markedly and selectively smaller than the type 1 fibers , which were of normal size for striated muscles , and the internal structure of type 1 fibers showed so-called core-targetoid and / or moth-eaten change . group atrophy or fiber-type grouping ( indicators of denervation and reinnervation ) were observed only in a few patients . the selective small size of the type 2 fibers may indicate atrophy due to relative inactivity of the multifidus muscle both in the patients and in the controls , ie , it does not need to be related to the herniated disc . definite proof for denervation of the multifidus muscle was not observed , but neither the possibility be excluded . the cause of the core-targetoid and / or moth-eaten changes cannot yet be determined with certainty , because these changes are not specific for any single entity but may be due , for example , to denervation , ischemia , or altered use of the muscles because of pain . in any case , because the changes were significantly more common in the patients than in the controls , they signal for a pathologic condition , the character of which remains to be elucidated . 
age changes in lumbar zygapophyseal joints . observations on structure and function . transverse sections of zygapophyseal joints from 61 human , postmortem , lumbar spines of individuals ranging in age from fetal life to 84 years , were used for a study of age changes in relation to biomechanical function . the articular cartilage and subchondral bone of the anterior , coronally oriented third of the joint show changes that are likely to be related to loading of this part of the joint in flexion . the posterior , sagittally oriented two-thirds of the joint shows different age changes , which may reflect shearing forces , imparted to the articular cartilage through the fibrous capsule , from insertion of some fibers of multifidus into the fibrous capsule . the subchondral bone plate , which thickens into a wedge shape with growth to maturity , probably in response to loading stress in flexion , retains this shape into old age despite the bone loss associated with osteoporosis . 
foot and hand length for prediction of vital capacity in scoliotic children . expected values of vital capacity ( vc ) and other lung function variables in children are usually predicted from regression equations of the index test on stature . in children with scoliosis , arm span or an " uncoiled " stature derived from the observed stature and the degree of spinal angulation have been used to predict expected values . stature and hand and foot length were measured and all three anthropometric indices were used as independent variables for the prediction of vc in 489 normal children and adolescents ( aged 4-18 years ) . vc was highly correlated with stature for boys and girls with regression coefficients of 0.93 and 0.91 , respectively . for foot length , corresponding coefficients were 0.90 and 0.83 , and for hand length 0.90 and 0.80 . in 14 scoliotic children , aged 5.9-18.4 years , a close agreement was found for predictions of vc from arm span , uncoiled stature and hand and foot length . when accurate measurements of stature cannot be made , hand or foot length can be used to predict expected vc . this approach may be an alternative to the use of arm span or uncoiled stature to predict vc in children with scoliosis . 
the symmetry of the breasts in normal and scoliotic girls . mammary asymmetry was estimated visually by different investigators in three series of scoliotic girls and in three control groups . the breasts of each girl were classified as being equal in size or as being obviously different in size , note being made of which breast was the larger . breast asymmetry was significantly more common among the scoliotic than the normal girls . moreover , the left breast was significantly more often larger in the scoliotic series of girls . on the other hand , there was no significant difference in the frequency of breast asymmetry in respect of the classifications according to curve type ( right convex thoracic vs . other types ) and to cobb angle ( 35 degrees or less vs . more than 35 degrees ) . 
long-term effects on personality development in patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis . influence of type of treatment . in a series of 157 patients treated surgically and / or with milwaukee braces , constituting 83 % of the original criterion patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis , treated in the department of orthopaedics in gothenburg , sweden , from 1969 to 1974 , a specific psychologic interview was carried out an average of 9 years after treatment . the 92 surgical patients all wore a milwaukee brace postoperatively for 6-9 months and were gradually weaned over the next year ( 17 + / - 2 months ) . the brace-treated patients wore their braces full time for 18 months and part time for another 8 months ( 26 + / - 3 months ) . the psychologic portion of the study was a semistructured interview aimed at evaluating reactions in connection with the diagnostic phase , attitudes and reactions to the treatment , attitudes to the hospital staff , and body image concepts at follow-up . the brace-treated patients more often said that they experienced more fear and anxiety when informed about the diagnosis than did the surgical patients ( 53 % and 38 % , respectively ) . in both groups , nearly all patients initially had negative attitudes to the brace treatment . most of the surgically treated patients gradually accepted the brace , whereas very few of the other group did so . forty percent in the brace group had negative experiences with the hospital staff , but only 15 % in the other group reported negative experience . several years after completed treatment , one-half of the brace group had definite signs of negative body image concept , whereas this emotional disturbance was found in 33 % of the surgically treated patients . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
measurement of thoracolumbar posture and mobility with a myrin inclinometer . 
severe neurologic disturbances after metrizamide myelography . a case report . 
erythrocyte sedimentation rate following lumbar discectomy . 
vertebral eosinophilic granuloma . long-term evolution of a case . 
nutrition and cancer ii . 
evaluation of computed tomography guided percutaneous biopsy of the pancreas . the results of 96 computed tomography guided percutaneous pancreatic aspiration biopsies were reviewed to evaluate the diagnostic sensitivity , specificity and accuracy in pancreatic mass lesions . these were assessed by comparing pathology results to findings at subsequent laparotomy , autopsy or to immediate and long term clinical findings . effects of varying the size of the biopsy needle and the number of aspirations performed were examined . of the primary tumors of the pancreas in which adequate material was obtained , 97.3 per cent were correctly diagnosed with one false-negative and no false-positive results . the over-all sensitivity rate for primary tumor so the pancreas was 71.9 per cent using a no . 22 gauge " skinny " needle and 86.7 per cent using a no . 20 gauge needle . over-all diagnostic accuracy for all types of lesions was 61.8 per cent using a no . 22 gauge needle and 73.3 per cent using a no . 20 gauge needle . a no . 19 gauge needle with a sheath was used on lesions with fluid or necrotic debris when a pseudocyst was a possibility . over-all diagnostic accuracy using a no . 19 gauge sheathed needle was 81.8 per cent on all types of lesions . there was no benefit in using two passes versus a single aspiration . there were no complications , regardless of the needle size or number of passes . the serum amylase level increased in one instance after biopsy and this returned to normal a few days after biopsy . computed tomography guided aspirations are safe and effective in evaluation of focal or diffuse enlargements of the pancreas when proper techniques and appropriate precautions are used . 
local recurrence and the deep resection margin in carcinoma of the breast . deep resection margin of carcinoma of the breast is an important determinant of the extent of surgical resection as well as the use of adjunctive therapy . to investigate the relationship between deep resection margin and local recurrence , we retrospectively reviewed 105 consecutive female patients with clinical or pathologic stage ii infiltrating ductal carcinoma of the breast . all patients underwent a modified radical mastectomy with the removal of an intact pectoral fascia . the deep margin of resection was determined by histopathologic examination . detailed follow-up information was obtained for 100 patients . in this study group , the distance from the tumor margin to the pectoral fascia did not correlate with local recurrence . seventy-seven patients had deep margins of 1 centimeter or less ; eight patients had a local recurrence . recurrence in this group did not correlate with the distance from the deep margin ( p = 0.92 ) . the adjunctive administration of radiation therapy or chemotherapy did not appear to influence the frequency of local recurrences . these data suggest a deep margin consisting of an intact pectoral fascia may be adequate to prevent local recurrence in patients with infiltrating carcinoma of the breast . 
value of routine pathology in herniorrhaphy performed upon adults . the value of routine pathologic study of specimens taken at herniorrhaphy performed upon adults was assessed . all 789 patients who underwent inguinal or femoral herniorrhaphy at the long island jewish medical center from january 1983 through july 1984 were studied . patients were classified into five groups ; 1 , no specimen was sent for pathologic evaluation ; 2 , confirmation of hernia sac ; 3 , confirmation of hernia sac with additional expected pathologic findings ( such as lipoma or hydrocele ) ; 4 , unexpected additional pathologic findings which appeared abnormal at operation , and 5 , unexpected additional pathologic findings which appeared normal at operation . during this time period there were 935 herniorrhaphy procedures performed . three of 1 , 020 specimens examined contained unexpected pathologic findings ( groups 4 and 5 ) : non-hodgkin 's lymphoma , liposarcoma and atypical lipoma . only one specimen ( group 5 ) with an abnormal pathology report showed an atypical lipoma which appeared normal at operation ( 0.098 per cent ) . the outcome of the operation was not altered by the pathology results in these three patients from either group 4 or 5. aggregate charges for all specimens was $ 30 , 528.00 ( a mean charge per patient of $ 48.00 ) . annual savings to the health care system of the united states by omitting routine pathologic examination of specimens from groups 1 , 2 and 3 would be $ 18 million . although there may be some justification for routine tissue testing for medical and legal reasons and quality assurance purposes or for specimens which appeared abnormal at operation , these data suggest that for patients who undergo herniorrhaphy , little positive effect on the outcome is gained from routine pathologic examination of specimens which appeared normal at operation . 
parathyroid hormone reduces acute ischemic injury of the myocardium . synthetic parathyroid hormone ( pth ) , particularly the molecular fragment containing amino acids one to 34 ( 1-34 ) , has been shown to produce coronary vasodilation and systemic vasodilation without tachycardia . on this basis , we tested the hypothesis that pth ( 1-34 ) would favorably affect oxygen balance in acutely ischemic myocardium and reduce the extent of injury after coronary occlusion . experiments were done upon the left anterior descending coronary artery which was ligated through a thoracotomy in anesthetized dogs subjected to ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery . after 30 minutes of ischemia , the dogs were randomly assigned to either a group which received an intracoronary infusion of 0.008 nanomoles per kilogram of body weight per minute of pth ( 1-34 ) for ten minutes at intervals of 30 minutes or a control group which received intracoronary saline solution . pth ( 1-34 ) increased circumflex artery blood flow 290 + / - 62 per cent ( p less than 0.005 ) and coronary venous return from the ischemic area 190 + / - 12 per cent ( p less than 0.005 ) while reducing mean arterial pressure 12.5 + / - 1.7 per cent ( p less than 0.05 ) without a change in the heart rate . these hemodynamic changes resulted in a 54.3 + / - 3.7 per cent ( p less than 0.005 ) decrease in ischemic myocardial oxygen extraction and a reduction of infarct size ( 25 + / - 5 per cent of myocardium at risk in treated versus 75 + / - 10 per cent in the control group ) . it is concluded that pth given after coronary artery occlusion increases collateral blood flow and oxygen supply to the ischemic myocardium while reducing oxygen requirements . thus , pth may offer significant protection for the acutely ischemic myocardium . 
proximal gastric vagotomy in emergency peptic ulcer perforation . in order to evaluate proximal gastric vagotomy ( pgv ) performed under different clinical conditions , we compared the late results of 93 patients who underwent emergency pgv for perforated duodenal ulcers with those of 60 patients who had elective pgv . the emergency group of patients were slightly younger and there was a higher male predominance but they were otherwise comparable with those in the elective group . there were no operative deaths and the postoperative morbidity rate was low in both groups . three patients had a recurrence in the emergency group , and seven occurred in those in the elective group during the first three postoperative years . the cumulative recurrence-free rate of the emergency group was not lower than that of the elective group . the performance of the individual surgeon exerted a strong influence on the incidence of recurrent ulceration . in properly selected patients , whether the surgeons perform pgv in emergency or elective situations appears to have little influence on the outcome . 
splenic conservation after trauma in children . in this study , we report on the management of 25 consecutive children with splenic injury . in 23 patients , the spleen was preserved ( 92 per cent ) and two were treated by splenectomy . five splenic injuries occurred in neonates . four patients ( 16 per cent ) were treated nonoperatively . we demonstrate that operative splenic conservation is usually possible and is a viable option when diagnostic doubt or logistic difficulties preclude safe nonoperative management . avoidable operations were performed upon two patients ( 8 per cent ) . in four ( 16 per cent ) , associated intra-abdominal lesions requiring surgical treatment were encountered . in 60 per cent of the patients , extensive extra-abdominal trauma was present . 
gastroesophageal reflux is not increased by highly selective vagotomy . in an attempt to determine whether or not highly selective vagotomy leads to increased gastroesophageal reflux , 20 patients were studied after vagotomy ( ten underwent highly selective vagotomy and ten , truncal vagotomy and drainage ) and ten patients with duodenal ulcer disease were studied preoperatively by history , esophageal manometry , basal ph studies , standard acid reflux tests , acid perfusion tests ( bernstein tests ) , acid clearance tests and endoscopy with biopsy . nine of ten patients had either no or minimal reflux symptoms after highly selective vagotomy were contrasted with five of ten preoperative patients who underwent truncal vagotomy and four of ten patients with duodenal ulcer disease . no significant differences in the three patient groups studied were found by esophageal manometry , ph tests , acid perfusion tests , acid clearance tests or endoscopic and histologic examinations . our results add support to the view that gastroesophageal reflux is not increased after vagotomy ( including highly selective vagotomy ) . 
hollow viscus rupture due to blunt trauma . the results of current pediatric surgical texts suggest that the damage sustained by solid abdominal viscera after blunt trauma is best treated expectantly . therefore , a child with significant intra-abdominal pathology is managed nonoperatively . for this reason , missed or unexpected pathology may be inappropriately treated . this is the major problem faced by the surgeon caring for these children . a review of 56 patients seen after blunt abdominal trauma is reported ; ten of this group had hollow viscus ruptures . it was found that special investigations were of no aid in guiding management policy . this decision remained a clinical one , which stresses the importance of the interpretation of abdominal signs made by the surgeon who is caring for the patient and the role he or she plays in the treatment of children with blunt trauma . 
effects of age , gender and female sex hormones upon contractility of the human gallbladder in vitro . age , gender and female sex hormones are thought to influence contractility of the gallbladder . surgically removed gallbladders with gallstones and mild chronic cholecystitis from three groups of patients ( males and premenopausal and postmenopausal females ) were studied . strips were incubated in krebs solution , in krebs containing 0.2 per cent ethanol-propylene glycol solvent ( solvent controls ) or in krebs solution containing progesterone ( 0.1 , 1.0 and 10.0 micromolar ) or 17-beta-estradiol ( 0.1 and 1.0 micromolar ) . concentration response curves were obtained for acetylcholine and octapeptide of cholecystokinin and the maximum contraction and median effective dose values were recorded . steroid receptor levels in the wall of the gallbladder were also estimated . in gallbladders from males , the sensitivity to acetylcholine increased significantly with age . however , in gallbladders from premenopausal women , there was a significant decrease in sensitivity to acetylcholine and cholecystokinin with age . progesterone ( 1 and 10 micromolar ) reduced the spontaneous rhythmic contractions of the strips by 35 + / - 8 and 65 + / - 8 per cent , respectively , and also reduced the maximum contraction of gallbladders from postmenopausal females to acetylcholine . estradiol-17 beta had no effect upon the contractility of the gallbladder . the results of additional studies showed that the human gallbladder is estrogen and progesterone receptor negative . the sensitivity of the gallbladder to neurohormonal stimulation varies with age and gender . these results indicate that short term exposure to female sex hormones has an inhibitory effect upon gallbladder contractility . the inhibitory effects of short term exposure to progesterone seen in this study are probably nonspecific in nature . 
new upper and lower clamps for use in anterior resection of the rectum by hand suture or stapling techniques . new occlusive clamps have been designed to facilitate anterior resection of the rectum . a t shaped upper occlusive clamp with centrally placed arms , curved transverse end and its total length and light weight provide more secure control of the intestine and allows the surgeon a less obstructed view of the distal site of section than the traditional l shaped rectal clamps . a lower occlusive clamp has been designed to obviate many of the inherent problems of controlling and suturing a rectal stump in the depths of the pelvis . main concerns and technical troubles are retraction of the stump , loss of control of the flabby rectal remnant and difficulty handling the anterior and posterior walls as the surgeon attempts to make the anastomosis . the lower clamp keeps the rectum from retracting and the proximal cut end is held open by four stay sutures to wings on the right and left blades of the clamp . it is used to facilitate the placement of a purse-string suture in the eea stapling technique or in a hand sutured anastomosis . 
a needle in the sole of the foot . a technique for removal of a needle in the sole of the foot in ten minutes of dissection and without the use of multiple roentgenograms or complex equipment is presented . the technique has been used by the author for 11 years without a single failure . 
partial splenectomy using the ta stapler . 
the use of paper tape in wound closures . the techniques described using paper tape in wound closure have been found to be cosmetically equal to or better than other forms of wound closure . paper tape provides better support , is more versatile and care free , while being easier to use and less expensive than steri strips . 
a new approach to primary strengthening of colostomy with marlex mesh to prevent paracolostomy hernia . a new procedure for preventing paracolostomy hernia is described . it has been used since 1979 in 43 patients and is effective in strengthening the colostomy outlet in its common location and affixing the intestine firmly to the aperture . four years after operation , no hernia or prolapse has occurred in the patients who underwent this procedure . 
a new technique of transduodenal choledochoduodenostomy . a new technique of transduodenal choledochoduodenostomy is proposed . it is easy to perform and leaves no blind tube below the stoma and biliary pancreatic leakage is eliminated . 
posterior pharyngostomy as a new approach to an old problem . 
short latency somatosensory-evoked potentials in children--part 2. effects of spinovertebral disorders . surface-recorded spinal and cortical somatosensory-evoked potentials ( seps ) following tibial or median nerve stimulation were studied in 26 children aged from 12 months to 13 years . fifteen patients had caudal or dysraphic spinal malformations , often with a tethered cord syndrome , while the remaining patients had spinal tumors ( 4 ) , syringomyelia ( 3 ) , spinal canal stenosis ( 2 ) , or demyelinating syndromes ( 2 ) . somatosensory-evoked potential abnormalities were found in 13 patients . loss of a sep at or rostral to the site of spinal pathology was the most common finding . prolongation of central conduction times or delay in sep peak latencies was documented in only four patients . correlations between clinical and electrophysiological findings revealed that all patients with sensory dysfunction had abnormal seps , whereas patients with motor or sphincteric dysfunction , but intact sensation , usually had normal seps . these relationships between seps and clinical findings were constant irrespective of the etiology and location of the spinal pathology . the results from this study suggest that although sep studies provide information regarding the somatosensory pathways , their clinical utility as a method of assessing spinal cord function in children with spinal disorders is limited by technical , clinical , and anatomical factors . 
short latency somatosensory-evoked potentials in children--part 3. findings following head injury . fourteen children aged 3 to 11 years who suffered from coma for at least 6 hours had somatosensory-evoked potential studies performed within 24 hours of neurotrauma . the upper cervical ( cv2 ) and bilateral cortical somatosensory-evoked potentials were recorded for calculation of the central somatosensory conduction time . despite the fact that the sep recordings were performed in the intensive care unit and the patients were receiving opiate and barbiturate therapy , satisfactory somatosensory-evoked potentials were recorded in all patients . symmetrical short latency cortical somatosensory-evoked potentials were recorded bilaterally in 10 patients . two patients with hemorrhagic cerebral contusions and unilateral cerebral edema had ipsilateral abnormalities of the cortical somatosensory-evoked potential . these patients all had normal central somatosensory conduction times and all had satisfactory neurological recoveries , although the two patients with abnormal cortical somatosensory-evoked potentials had focal neurological deficits . two patients whose head injuries were complicated by hypoxia and refractory intracranial hypertension had bilaterally abnormal cortical somatosensory-evoked potentials , and both had vegetative outcomes . there was no correlation between the glasgow coma score and central somatosensory conduction time ; however , the number of components to the cortical somatosensory-evoked potential was related to the glasgow coma score . the results suggest that the recording of somatosensory-evoked potentials can provide useful information about the functional status of central and cortical somatosensory pathways in children following major head injury . 
short latency somatosensory-evoked potentials in children--part 4. findings with cerebral lesions . cortical somatosensory-evoked potential studies were performed on seven children with unilateral intracerebral lesions . three patients had neoplasms , and four had hematomas of various etiology . all the lesions involved either directly or indirectly with the thalamocapsular or perirolandic regions of the brain . patterns of somatosensory-evoked potential asymmetry included abnormality of the primary cortical complex ( n1-p1 ) , loss of intermediate and long latency waveform components , and attenuation of the response on the side of the lesion . the most abnormal somatosensory-evoked potentials were seen in patients with major clinical deficits , whereas patients with minimal neurologic signs had minor somatosensory-evoked potential changes . the location , etiology , and duration of the lesions all appeared to influence the somatosensory-evoked potential waveform . the value of somatosensory-evoked potential studies in the diagnosis and localization of cerebral lesions would seem to be limited because of pathophysiologic phenomena related to the primary cerebral lesion . 
temporary vascular occlusion during aneurysm surgery . premature rupture of a cerebral aneurysm during operation is a serious hazard . direct pressure and suction may not always be effective in controlling the hemorrhage , and hasty dissection under such circumstances can cause serious injury to vital structures . in facing this risk , elective temporary arterial occlusion of parent vessels can be an advantage . temporary clipping also may be helpful in the case of a giant aneurysm when the lesion must be opened and evacuated , or in the case of a thin-walled fundus tightly adherent to perforating vessels . reduction of tension in the aneurysmal sac can be a valuable aid to safe dissection . the authors reviewed a total of 185 cases of intracranial aneurysm operated upon ( l.s. ) in the 5-year period between january 1980 and january 1985. sixty-six patients ( 35.7 % ) underwent temporary arterial occlusion during the operations . clinical outcome was excellent in 65.2 % of the patients , good in 13.6 % , fair in 12.1 % , and poor in 3 % . the mortality rate was 6.1 % . no significant difference was found by comparing the 66 patients with temporary arterial occlusion with the 119 patients without occlusion . the longest occlusion time for the patients with excellent outcome was 23 minutes for bilateral a1 segments , 40 minutes for middle cerebral artery , 27 minutes 44 seconds for internal carotid artery , and 13 minutes 30 seconds for basilar artery . this study suggests that temporary arterial occlusion does not necessarily increase the overall mortality and morbidity in aneurysm surgery . when justified and used with caution it can be a valuable adjunct for the neurosurgeon . 
cerebral edema associated with meningiomas . fifty patients with intracranial meningiomas have been retrospectively examined , and the cerebral edema on computed tomography scan has been correlated with the clinical evolution , size , location , and histological features of the tumor . the degree of brain edema was found to be related to the clinical evolution and the size of the tumor , whereas the histological features were less significant . these results are discussed after reviewing the data of five other series in the literature of this subject . a correlation between the tumor steroid receptors and edema is suggested . 
cerebral edema associated with intracranial tumors [ editorial ] 
monitoring of somatosensory-evoked potentials during aneurysm surgery . somatosensory-evoked potentials were recorded during and after 31 operations for intracranial aneurysms , and the changes in the central conduction times , namely , the interpeak latencies between the n14 and n20 peaks in response to bipolar stimulation of the median nerve , were studied . neuroleptanalgesia and routine intracranial operative procedures such as opening the dura mater , drainage of the cerebrospinal fluid , gentle retraction of the brain , and microsurgical dissection of the circle of willis , were found to have no significant adverse effect on the evoked responses , whereas the temporary clipping of the major cerebral artery or premature rupture of the aneurysm associated with hypotension or both , often caused significant prolongation of the central conduction time . prolongation of the central conduction time exceeding 1.2 ms or disappearance of the n20 peak adversely affected the postoperative conditions in 8 of 13 patients ( 62 % ) . 
acoustic schwannoma presenting as subarachnoid hemorrhage due to ruptured contact aneurysm . the authors report a rare combination of aneurysm and acoustic schwannoma in a 66-year-old housewife , who developed subarachnoid hemorrhage from a ruptured aneurysm arising from an arterial branch of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery on the tumor capsule . association of aneurysm and cerebellopontine angle schwannoma is extremely rare , and there has been no report of subarachnoid hemorrhage due to ruptured contact aneurysm , although previous reports indicated a small number of acoustic schwannomas accompanying hematomas in and around tumors . 
prediction and evaluation of brainstem function by auditory brainstem responses in patients with uncal herniation . serial measurements of auditory brainstem-evoked responses ( bers ) were conducted in 15 patients with supratentorial mass lesions . significant prolongation of the latency of wave v bers , which originates in the inferior colliculus , occurred when the intracranial pressure ( icp ) approached 30 mmhg . in four of five patients whose bers were measured before pupillary changes , a significant lengthening of wave v latency was observed prior to clinical manifestation of uncal herniation . these results suggest that immediate medical or surgical decompression of icp should be performed when icp approaches 30 mmhg with significant prolongation of wave v latency . 
short latency somatosensory-evoked potentials in children--part 1. normative data . spinal , subcortical , and short latency cortical somatosensory-evoked potentials ( seps ) following electrical stimulation of the median or tibial nerve were studied in 100 children aged 4 weeks to 13 years . standard neurophysiological methods of recording surface seps were used in sedated and nonsedated children . the morphology of the seps was similar to that obtained in adults ; however , the initial components of the cortical sep following median nerve stimulation did show maturational changes in both interpeak latencies and morphology . the negative peak latencies recorded over erb 's point ( n9 equivalent ) and the second cervical vertebra ( n13 equivalent ) following median nerve stimulation , and over the lumbothoracic junction ( n14 equivalent ) following tibial nerve stimulation were directly related to patient age and limb length . there was no correlation between age and the latencies of either the initial negativity ( n18 equivalent ) or the initial positivity ( p28 equivalent ) of the cortical seps following respective median and tibial nerve stimulation . the central somatosensory conduction time decreased slowly during the first decade and attained adult values after 8 years of age . the lumbar spine to scalp transit time showed no direct relationship to age . comparisons of seps recorded in the same subject when awake and under general anesthesia showed that the latencies of the subcortical , spinal , and n1-p1 complex of the cortical sep are identical ; however , the later components of the cortical sep vary both in latency and amplitude with anesthesia . this study represents normative data against which sep in children with disorders of the central nervous system may be compared . 
fluosol and brain ischemia in gerbils [ letter ] 
the physician and the declaration of tokyo [ editorial ] 
pheochromocytoma : nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid patterns studied by flow cytometry . nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) ploidy studies with paraffin-embedded archival tumor specimen blocks were performed by flow cytometry on extracted nuclei from 75 pheochromocytomas . clinical details , specifically including histologic findings , biochemical studies , and ultimate fate , were investigated . preparation of paraffin-embedded tissue specimens was carried out by the technique of hedley et al . and stained with propidium iodide according to the method of vindelov et al . twenty-three tumors showed a normal dna histogram , 31 showed significant increase in the 4c ( dna tetraploid ) peak , and 21 exhibited a dna aneuploid peak . to define a subset of patients who had either died as a result of pheochromocytoma or had been followed for a minimum of 10 years , 13 patients were excluded . of the remaining 62 patients , all of the 18 patients with a normal dna histogram followed a benign clinical course , including normal fractionated urinary catecholamines . however , eight ( 31 % ) of the 26 patients classified dna tetraploid / polyploid and seven ( 39 % ) of the 18 patients exhibiting a dna aneuploid peak had evidence of malignancy ; these two groups had significantly more malignant tumors ( p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.02 , respectively ) than the normal dna group . flow cytometric dna ploidy measurements of isolated nuclei seem to provide useful prognostic information for patients with pheochromocytoma . 
early postoperative function of suppressed parathyroid glands with microscopic hyperplasia . calcium-parathyroid hormone ( ca-pth ) relationships were studied perioperatively in 35 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism . twenty-nine patients had solitary adenomas that caused preoperative hypercalcemia ; those patients whose remaining glands were subjected to biopsy were classified as having either microscopic evidence of suppression in those glands ( 15 patients ) or no evidence of suppression ( less than or equal to 30 % stromal fat on biopsy cross sections , 11 patients ) . before surgery , all patients showed the expected positive slopes for ca-pth linear regression curves . after surgery , all patients with adenomas showed an immediate and sustained shift of the ca-pth regression to the right ; this shift achieved statistical significance only in those patients whose remaining glands showed microscopic evidence of suppression ( greater than 30 % fat , p less than 0.05 ) . moreover , the slope of the ca-pth regression curve for these patients assumed a negative value 1 month after surgery . all patients with adenomas were eucalcemic after surgery , regardless of the cellularity of the remaining in situ glands . we conclude that the absence of microscopic suppression in grossly suppressed parathyroid glands at the time of adenoma resection for hyperparathyroidism does not affect postoperative results . however , the presence of microscopic hyperplasia in macroscopically normal or suppressed glands may represent a persistent alteration in biologic function , evidenced by failure of these glands to achieve negative calcium regulation . 
parathyroid hormone : before and after parathyroidectomy . the clinical value of measuring serum immunoreactive parathyroid hormone ( ipth ) for the diagnosis of primary hyperparathyroidism is sometimes debated , and the clinical significance of an elevated postoperative serum ipth level is unknown . therefore we studied 141 consecutive patients with primary hyperparathyroidism before and after parathyroidectomy to determine the clinical value of measuring serum ipth by a mid-region-specific radioimmunoassay . eighty-eight percent of the patients with primary hyperparathyroidism had an absolute increase in the level of serum ipth ( greater than 40 microliter eq / ml ) before surgery , and the remaining patients had an inappropriately increased level of serum ipth for the simultaneous serum calcium level . preoperative serum ipth level correlated positively with serum calcium level and parathyroid tumor size . postoperative elevation of serum ipth level was common ( as high as 40 % ) and was associated with higher preoperative levels of blood urea nitrogen , serum creatinine , and alkaline phosphatase and larger tumors . an elevated postoperative serum ipth level without hypercalcemia did not indicate a failed parathyroidectomy , whereas negative parathyroid exploration and postoperative hypercalcemia were the best predictors of persistent hyperparathyroidism . we conclude that preoperative serum ipth measurement is a very sensitive diagnostic test for primary hyperparathyroidism , but postoperative serum ipth measurement is not a good predictor for persistent or recurrent hyperparathyroidism . 
the tiny parathyroid adenoma . in the past 11 years we have operated on three patients with " tiny " parathyroid adenomas ( less than 60 mg ) . two of these adenomas were virtually indistinguishable visually from the normal glands . ( the third adenoma was found only after fixation and permanent sections . ) despite frozen-section diagnoses of " probable hyperplastic tissue " in two cases , these small hyperplastic glands proved confusing at operation . this was especially true of the hyperactive gland embedded within mediastinal tissue that , on initial examination of gross material , had been missed by surgeons and pathologists alike and was discovered only on permanent serial sections . the preoperative laboratory data did not vary substantially from that of other hyperparathyroid patients with larger adenomas ; in each case two or more endocrinologists had agreed that parathyroidectomy was indicated and had referred these patients for operation . permanent microscopic sections confirmed the diagnosis of parathyroid adenoma in all three patients . the clinical and laboratory postoperative data strongly indicate that these small adenomas , masquerading as normal-sized glands , were responsible for the hypercalcemia . these tiny adenomas should be added to the other anatomic and pathologic variations of the parathyroid glands that can prove confusing at operation . 
the factor of factor xi deficiency in thyroid neoplasia . forty-three patients with factor xi deficiency detected by prolonged partial thromboplastin times were reviewed over an 11-year period . they were predominantly ashkenazim--18 men and 25 women--ranging in age from 20 to 92 years . thirteen patients had a history of bleeding , and eight had a family history of factor xi deficiency . six patients with thyroid disease with four significant tumors were found for a 9 % incidence of associated neoplasia . these consisted of two adenomas and two papillary-mixed cancers in two men distinguished by an aggressive course by virtue of extensive nodal disease , local recurrence , and systemic metastases in whom factor xi was profoundly decreased . it would appear that there is an undue association of factor xi deficiency and thyroid neoplasia suggestive of a shared genetic disturbance . these cases illustrate the benefit of routine preoperative coagulopathy screening by use of prothrombin time , partial thromboplastin time , and platelet counts . factor xi deficiency is an infrequent cause of excessive bleeding , and the operative morbidity of surgical management of affected individuals can be avoided by the use of fresh-frozen plasma before and after surgery . 
encapsulated follicular carcinoma of the thyroid : diagnosis , treatment , and results . nineteen cases of encapsulated follicular carcinoma of the thyroid treated at the massachusetts general hospital from 1962 to 1979 are reviewed . in all patients the encapsulated nodules had histologic evidence of capsular or vascular invasion . there were 13 women and six men with ages ranging from 14 to 74 years . eight of the 19 patients underwent large-needle thyroid biopsies before surgery , and in each patient a hypercellular lesion was identified requiring surgery to exclude malignancy . the operative approach was ipsilateral lobectomy with removal of sufficient thyroid tissue to assure that resection margins were free of disease . the size of the tumors ranged from 2 to 6.5 cm in greatest diameter . the mean follow-up was 112 months . three patients developed ipsilateral neck recurrences . four patients developed metastases to the bone , brain , or lung . the time from initial operation to recurrence or metastasis ranged from 0 to 241 months ( mean , 69 months ) . there was a 5-year survival rate of 88 % and a 10-year survival rate of 78 % . only two of the six patients with complete follow-up died of thyroid malignancy . of the 16 patients with recurrent or metastatic disease , two died of the disease . no patient whose lesion was 3 cm or smaller developed metastases or recurrences , and of the 10 patients with lesions 3.5 cm or larger , six developed metastatic or recurrent disease . age was also a prognostic factor , since four of the six patients over 60 years old developed recurrent or metastatic disease . 
testosterone enhancement of thyroid carcinoma in rats : the role of tsh . radiation treatment of long-evans male rats ( 40 mu ci na131i at the age of 2 months ) led to a high incidence of thyroid follicular carcinomas at the age of 24 months ; castration of males before irradiation caused a significant reduction in incidence of this tumor . in this study , replacement testosterone ( t ) was administered to castrated male rats by means of implanted , slow-release hormone-containing pellets ( t-physiologic dose ) . three testosterone doses ( 0.1t , 1.0t , and 30t ) were used to treat groups of castrated irradiated and castrated nonirradiated rats from 2 to 18 months of age . the incidence of thyroid follicular carcinoma at 18 months in irradiated rats depended on the dose of replacement testosterone used . tumor incidence was 8 % , 14 % , 41 % , and 50 % after treatment with 0t , 0.1t , 1.0t , and 30t , respectively . the incidence of thyroid follicular carcinoma in nonirradiated rats ranged from 0 to 7 % . mean serum thyroid-stimulating hormone ( tsh ) values in irradiated animal groups were elevated significantly above those for age-matched nonirradiated animals . the degree of tsh elevation in irradiated animals was related directly to the testosterone-replacement level . all rat groups showed age-dependent decreases in serum t4 levels , and t4 levels were also lowered by replacement testosterone in nonirradiated castrated animals . in aging irradiated animals , serum t4 levels were similarly decreased by testosterone , despite elevated tsh levels in these groups . in this study , testosterone appeared to act indirectly to promote development of irradiation-induced thyroid tumors by early and prolonged elevation of tsh levels . 
surgical treatment of distant metastases in differentiated thyroid cancer : indication and results . a total of 45 patients have received surgical treatment for distant metastases in 41 follicular and four papillary carcinomas . fifty-four metastatic lesions were removed . in the majority of cases ( n = 25 , 46 % ) , surgical intervention was indicated on the basis of oncologic data ( reduced administration of radioiodine ) . sixteen patients ( 30 % ) underwent surgery to relieve pain , and 13 other patients ( 24 % ) had surgical treatment of pathologic fracture . at the time of surgery , 29 patients ( 64 % ) had only one resectable metastasis , while 16 patients ( 36 % ) had further nonresectable metastases ( six in the bone , 10 in the bones and lungs ) . in the course of 53 operations , metastases were resected from bone in 46 cases , from the lungs and greater omentum in two cases , and from the skin , suprarenal gland , pleura , and intra-abdominal lymph node in one case each . a total of 25 metastases ( 17 bone , eight soft tissue ) could be removed by resection . in 16 patients , the resulting bone defect was filled with bone cement after resection of the metastases . osteosynthesis was necessary in another six cases , while seven required the implantation of an endoprosthesis . thirty-eight patients died between 1 and 136 months after surgical treatment . twenty-six ( 58 % ) died of their primary disease after an average 49.3 months , seven ( 15 % ) died with their carcinomas of other causes after an average of 12 months , and five ( 11 % ) died intercurrently after an average of 16 months . seven patients ( 15 % ) are still alive after 12 to 264 months ( average , 99.3 months ) ; four of them are without recurrence and three have metastases . five of these patients exhibit normal activity , while the activity of the other two is limited by the progress of the carcinoma or as a result of surgical treatment . the estimated cumulative survival rate ( kaplan-meier ) was 44.8 + / - 11.2 % for 5 years and 32.7 + / - 11.0 % for 10 years after removal of a solitary metastasis . analysis of these patients shows that the surgical removal of resectable metastases can be a valuable complement to nuclear medical therapy . the complicated surgical treatment of metastases is justified by the favorable effect it has on prognosis and on the patient 's quality of life . 
aggressive surgical approach for locally invasive papillary carcinoma of the thyroid in patients over forty-five years of age . aggressive radical resection was performed on 18 of 21 elderly patients with locally invasive-papillary carcinoma of the thyroid . diagnostic studies , including computed tomographic and endoscopic examinations , were useful in allowing accurate determination of tumor extent . radical resection usually consisted of total or subtotal thyroidectomy and neck dissection combined with excision of the affected organs , which in one case included a laryngotracheoesophagectomy ( reconstruction of the digestive tract with a forearm free flap ) , a sleeve , or a window resection of the trachea in nine cases ( immediate end-to-end anastomosis in all but one ) , a partial esophagectomy in two cases , and resection of the outer layer of the trachea or esophagus in six cases . after these operations , one patient died of rupture of the carotid artery , one died of cancer in 4 years , and one other died of unrelated disease . the other 15 patients are alive and well 1 to 5 years postoperatively , although additional exploration for nodal metastases was required in three patients . aggressive resection therefore appears to be justified for control of locally advanced , differentiated carcinoma of the thyroid . 
hurthle cell tumors : a twenty-five-year experience . during a 25-year period ( 1959 through 1983 ) , 54 patients with hurthle cell tumors were treated and monitored at the university of chicago medical center . thirty percent were men and 70 % were women ; mean age at diagnosis was 46.7 + / - 13.2 years ( range : 19 to 69 years ) . tumors were grouped into three categories at the time of initial diagnosis : group 1 , grossly malignant ( four patients , or 7.5 % ) ; group 2 , intermediate ( partial capsular and / or subcapsular vascular invasion ) ( 10 patients , or 18.5 % ) ; and group 3 , benign appearing ( 40 patients , or 74 % ) . twenty-one ( 39 % ) of the patients had a history of low-dose , external radiation to the head and neck in childhood ( including three of four grossly malignant lesions ) . a separate non-hurthle cell thyroid carcinoma was found within the thyroid gland in 22 ( 50 % ) of the patients--79 % were papillary and 21 % were follicular carcinomas . in half of these , there was a history of childhood irradiation . during a mean follow-up period of 8.4 years ( range , 22 days to 35 years ) , three additional hurthle cell tumors were recognized as malignant after metastases were discovered--two were originally classified as intermediate lesions and one was in the benign-appearing group . thus , seven of 54 of our patients ( 13 % ) had hurthle cell carcinomas . one of the seven patients died of widespread metastases after 35 years , and the other six are currently free of disease . we believe that therapy of these lesions should be individualized . total thyroid ablation ( surgical procedure followed by radioiodine therapy ) is appropriate for frankly malignant hurthle cell cancers , for all hurthle cell tumors occurring in patients who received low-dose childhood irradiation , for associated papillary or follicular carcinomas , and in those patients who exhibit partial capsular or subcapsular vascular invasion . on the other hand , single , well-encapsulated , benign-appearing hurthle cell tumors may be treated by lobectomy and careful follow-up , since the chance that they will later exhibit malignant behavior is low ( 2.5 % in our series and 1.5 % among patients described in the recent literature ) . 
total or near total thyroidectomy versus limited resection for radiation-associated thyroid nodules : a twelve-year follow-up of patients in a thyroid screening program . controversy continues regarding the extent of thyroidectomy appropriate for patients with radiation-associated thyroid nodules . the incidence of cancer in this group of patients is more than 50 % when near total or total thyroidectomy is done and all thyroid tissue is serially sectioned and examined . tumor multicentricity is common . is total or near total thyroidectomy warranted in all of these patients ? a prospective study and follow-up program of 2118 patients with prior low-dose head and neck irradiation who entered into a thyroid screening program allowed us to examine how the extent of thyroidectomy influenced the clinical course of these patients . near total or total thyroidectomy was performed in 59 patients ( 36 had cancer ) , and limited thyroid resection , that is , lobectomy or less , was done in 78 patients ( four of whom had cancer ) . during follow-up , only three patients have developed recurrent cancer ; two had near total thyroidectomy and one had total thyroidectomy at first operation . two patients with limited thyroid resection have had reoperation for new thyroid nodules , both of whom had benign nodules . we conclude that although limited thyroid resection may leave occult malignancies in unresected thyroid tissue , there is no significant difference in outcome between patients with limited resection and those with near total or total thyroidectomy after a 12-year follow-up of the program . significant differences in cancer recurrence rats may occur with longer follow-up . 
graves ' disease and thyroid cancer . the relationship between graves ' disease or its therapy and carcinoma of the thyroid remains uncertain . we studied 20 patients found to have thyroid cancer in glands previously treated for graves ' disease between 1961 and 1986 at the university of chicago medical center . sixteen ( 80 % ) occurred in women and four ( 20 % ) occurred in men . the mean age at operation was 37 years ( range , 19 to 69 years ) and did not differ by sex . fifteen of the 20 cancers ( 75 % ) were papillary while five ( 25 % ) were follicular . six individuals ( 30 % ) had a history of external radiation to the head and neck as an infant , child , or young adult . two others had received radioiodine ( rai ) therapy for graves ' disease 1 and 19 years earlier . patients were divided into three groups : group i : four patients ( 20 % ) had a neck mass 4 , 14 , 20 , and 41 years after having had a subtotal thyroidectomy ( stt ) for graves ' disease ; three of four had a history of external irradiation therapy . these tumors behaved aggressively , resulting in the death of two of the four patients . group ii : 11 patients ( 55 % ) had diffusely enlarge toxic goiters without a nodule . a carcinoma was diagnosed intraoperatively on frozen section in only two of these patients . the others received stt . after recognition on permanent section , those carcinomas that were 4 mm or greater in diameter received postoperative rai . one recurrence occurred and was treated successfully with further rai . group iii : five patients ( 25 % ) had graves ' disease and a palpable thyroid nodule . none of them had had a prior thyroidectomy for graves ' disease , as in group 1. thyroid carcinoma was diagnosed in all patients preoperatively or intraoperatively , and a total thyroidectomy was performed . each patient is alive and well with a mean follow-up of 5 years . between 1971 and 1981 , 194 patients had surgery for graves ' disease , and 10 ( 5.2 % ) were found to have an associated carcinoma ; six patients ( 3.1 % of the total ) did not have a nodule or any other suspicion of malignancy before surgery . during the same time , 303 patients received rai therapy for graves ' disease and one ( 0.3 % ) has subsequently developed thyroid carcinoma . thyroid cancer associated with graves ' disease is found more commonly in surgically treated patients than in patients after rai therapy . the greatest risk factor in our patients was previous external radiation to the head and neck . such individuals should be treated with total thyroid ablation rather than the usual stt , since they are at risk of developing aggressive thyroid cancers if thyroid remnants are left . 
the incidence of thyroid carcinoma in solitary cold nodules and in multinodular goiters . the incidence of carcinoma in patients with multinodular goiters has been reported to be considerably lower than in patients with a single cold nodule . however , the definition of a " single cold nodule " is highly subjective and has therefore been modified by qualifiers such as " clinically solitary " or " clinically dominant . " in this retrospective study , we find no significant difference in the incidence of carcinoma in patients with multinodular goiters compared with patients with a solitary cold nodule confirmed by operation and histopathologic examination . in a consecutive series of thyroidectomies over a 22-year period , all patients with factors predisposing them to neoplasia , such as a history of radiation exposure and thyroiditis , were eliminated . furthermore , all patients thought to have additional nodules documented by gross examination at operation or subsequently by histopathologic examination were also eliminated . the remaining 69 patients with clinically evident multinodular goiters were compared with the remaining 96 patients with a solitary cold nodule . the incidence of carcinoma in the 96 patients with a solitary cold nodule was 17 % . in the 69 patients with clinically evident multinodular goiters , the incidence of carcinoma was 13 % . the difference is not significant . it is of interest that male patients with multinodular goiters had the highest incidence of carcinoma at 29 % , whereas , males with a solitary cold nodule had an incidence of only 13 % . in conclusion , once known factors that predispose patients to neoplasia are eliminated , there does not seem to be a significant difference in the incidence of thyroid carcinoma between patients with operatively and histopathologically proved solitary cold nodules and those with multinodular goiters . 
the efficacy of simultaneous fine-needle aspiration and large-needle biopsy of the thyroid gland . fine-needle aspirations and cutting needle biopsies were performed on 415 patients with solitary thyroid nodules . all nodules were considered hypofunctioning by scintiscans . specimens were adequate in 399 patients . ten percent of these patients had thyroid cancers documented by thyroidectomies . results from either or both procedures were positive or suspicious in 58 patients ( 14.5 % ) . thyroid cancers were found in 40 of the 58 patients ( 69 % ) . aspirates alone detected 34 of 40 cancers ( 85 % ) and biopsy specimens alone detected 30 of 40 cancers ( 75 % ) . all thyroid cancers were detected when both results were considered together , demonstrating that needle aspirates and cutting needle biopsies are complementary . the difficulty of making definitive diagnoses of follicular neoplasms by needle aspirates or cutting needle biopsies is reemphasized . 
large-needle thyroid biopsy : still necessary . fine-needle aspiration and large-needle biopsy allow 87 % of patients with nodular thyroid disease to avoid operation . we have been concerned that fine-needle aspiration used alone will miss a significant number of follicular neoplasms . between january 1980 and april 1985 , 46 patients had fine-needle aspiration , large-needle biopsy , and thyroidectomy , and the preoperative biopsy specimens suggested or the postoperative pathologic findings confirmed a follicular neoplasm . seventeen patients had a thyroid carcinoma . all 17 patients also had hypercellular large-needle biopsies , but only nine of these patients had a fine-needle aspiration suspicious of malignancy ( p = 0.0078 ) . the inability of fine-needle aspiration to detect a significant number of thyroid cancers emphasizes the need to concomitantly perform large-needle biopsies in all acceptable cases . 
the late effect of subtotal thyroidectomy and radioactive iodine therapy on calcitonin secretion and bone mineral density in women treated for graves ' disease . this study was designed to evaluate the effect of subtotal thyroidectomy and / or radioactive iodine therapy on plasma immunocalcitonin ( ict ) levels and bone densities in patients treated for graves ' disease . forty-eight women whose ages ranged from 29 to 79 years ( mean , 55 years ) were evaluated . all were at least 10 years beyond treatment . fourteen patients had undergone subtotal thyroidectomy , 22 had received radioactive iodine therapy , and 12 had received both . serum calcitonin levels were measured with the patient fasting and at 30 minutes and 2 hours after the ingestion of 15 mg of calcium in orange juice . single photon absorptiometry was used to measure bone mineral density of the middle and distal radius . the mean fasting plasma levels of ict for patients undergoing subtotal thyroidectomy was 27 + / - 2 mumol / l ; women treated with radioactive iodine , 26 + / - 2 ; women undergoing subtotal thyroidectomy followed by radioactive iodine , 24 + / - 2 , and for normal control women , 48.5 + / - 4.7 . the mean stimulated ict level of each of the patient groups was significantly lower than that of the normal controls ( p = 0.01 ) . there were no significant differences among the groups . although there was an increased loss of bone mineral density in postmenopausal patients , with age and race as covariates , the bone densities of the distal radius in women undergoing subtotal thyroidectomy and / or receiving radioactive iodine were not significantly lower than those of normal control subjects ( p greater than 0.05 ) . these findings are consistent with other observations that patients treated by thyroidectomy and / or radioactive iodine for graves ' disease have lower basal levels of calcitonin and decreased calcitonin response to a provocative stimulus . whether this loss of calcitonin reserve is a significant factor in development of postmenopausal osteoporosis remains unanswered . 
elevated plasma vasopressin ( avp ) levels during resection of pheochromocytomas . during the evaluation of epidural blockade with light general anesthesia for pheochromocytoma resection , increases in plasma arginine vasopressin ( avp ) concentrations were noted . we measured avp levels in conjunction with plasma catecholamines during perioperative maneuvers in eight consecutive patients undergoing resection of pheochromocytomas . hormonal responses ( mean + / - se ) for preoperative baseline and peak values during tumor manipulation were as follows : avp , 5 microgram / ml or picogram / ml ( + / - 1.7 ) to a peak of 129 pg / ml ( + / - 44 ) pg / ml ; norepinephrine , 5 , 834 pg / ml ( + / - 2 , 564 ) to 72 , 422 ( + / - 31 , 433 ) pg / ml ; epinephrine , 1 , 033 pg / ml ( + / - 405 ) to 56 , 444 ( + / - 23 , 542 ) pg / ml ; and dopamine , 165 pg / ml ( + / - 35 ) to 4 , 231 ( + / - 1 , 318 ) pg / ml . maximal avp values occurred with tumor manipulation and remained elevated for 24 hours postoperatively . neither epidural placement , induction of anesthesia , nor epidural narcotics used for postoperative pain control had any effect on avp or catecholamine levels . these extraordinarily high concentrations of plasma avp found during tumor manipulation may contribute to hemodynamic lability and fluid problems in patients undergoing surgery for the treatment of pheochromocytoma . 
dopamine-secreting pheochromocytoma : an unrecognized entity ? classification of pheochromocytomas according to their type of secretion . a pheochromocytoma that exclusively secretes dopamine ( da ) rather than predominantly da among a blend of catecholamines is as yet unreported . of the 50 patients with pheochromocytoma who have undergone surgery , 32 underwent treatment within the last 5 years ( when da assay has been available ) . one half of these patients ( 15 / 32 ) exhibited da secretion either in mixed catecholamines ( 12 patients ) or exclusively ( three patients ) . all three patients with exclusive da-secreting tumors were normotensive . without hypertension , the clinical investigation was a diagnostic challenge ( unexplained cough or flank mass with inflammatory features ) . all three tumors were malignant and two were ectopic . five of the 12 patients with mixed catecholamine-secreting tumors whose secretions included da were hypertensive . five other patients had flank mass and one had an unexplained cough . tumors were rather large , and three of the tumors with mixed secretion were ectopic . of the 12 patients , seven had tumors that were judged to be malignant . three patients exhibited a dramatic decrease in blood pressure under alpha-blockade , which was not used in subsequent cases . predominant or exclusive secretion of da would explain the lack of hypertension due to its antiadrenergic action that inhibits the vasoconstrictive effects of other amines . hypertension in patients with pheochromocytoma might depend on the ratio of da / noradrenaline + adrenaline . 
adrenocortical carcinoma . from 1962 to 1985 , 47 patients with carcinoma of the adrenal cortex were treated at memorial sloan-kettering cancer institute . there were 21 men and 26 women . seventy-two percent of the tumors were functional and 28 % were nonfunctional . despite the advent of ultrasonography and computerized tomography , these tumors were infrequently diagnosed until they infiltrated adjacent organs or metastasized to distant sites . only 30 % of patients had tumors confined to the adrenal gland ; their mean duration of survival was 5.0 years . seventy percent of the patients had invasion of the kidney , lymph nodes , liver , diaphragm , and / or pancreas at the initial operation ; their mean duration of survival was 2.3 years . eight patients had reoperation for abdominal recurrences ; three of the patients with abdominal recurrence and one additional patient underwent thoracotomy to resect localized lung metastases . the mean duration of survival of these nine patients was 3.5 years , not significantly different from the mean overall survival of 3.1 years . the duration of survival of all patients was not significantly correlated with age , sex , adjuvant therapy , or production of hormones by the tumor . only two patients were deemed unresectable . wide en-bloc dissection of the primary tumor , resection of contiguous organs for local invasion , and excision of resectable metastases in the liver and lungs remain the basis of therapy . 
primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease : diagnosis and management . a rare cause of cushing 's syndrome appearing to originate in the adrenal glands is primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease ( ppnad ) . it may be variably associated with a complex of other pathologic characteristics that include cardiac myxomas , cutaneous myxomas , and lentigines , mammary myxoid lesions , testicular tumors , pituitary adenomas , and neuroectodermal tumors . we have reviewed the clinical , biochemical , radiographic , operative , and pathologic details of seven patients with ppnad who have been evaluated at mayo clinic . biochemical testing supported autonomous adrenal hyperfunction . this was based on the failure of cortisol suppression by high-dose dexamethasone , failure of pituitary stimulation by metyrapone administration , either normal or suppressed basal adrenocorticotropic hormone ( acth ) levels , normal radiographic studies of the sella turcica , and normal abdominal and thoracic computerized tomography in search of an ectopic acth-producing tumor . six patients underwent bilateral total adrenalectomy without postoperative complications . nelson 's syndrome has not occurred , but acute adrenocortical insufficiency may have contributed to the death of one patient . to recognize the possible diagnosis of ppnad preoperatively is important to proceed directly with adrenalectomy , avoiding unnecessary pituitary surgery . moreover , if ppnad is part of the broader pathologic complex , the possible presence of cardiac myxomas that may be multiple , recurrent , in atypical locations , and familial must be borne in mind . 
presidential address : china , then and now--a personal perspective . american association of endocrine surgeons . 
effect of secretin on gastrin release from gastrinoma cells in vitro . secretin appears to have a direct effect on gastrinoma cells , which results in a paradoxic increase in the serum gastrin level in patients with the zollinger-ellison syndrome . to evaluate this effect , gastrinoma cells were challenged with secretin in acute cell dispersion or after 2 weeks in culture . acutely dispersed cells were incubated for 15 minutes or 3 hours with and without secretin 10 ( -6 ) mol / l . ( sec ) . there was no significant difference in gastrin release between control and sec groups in the two acute incubation periods . at 15 minutes the control value was 47 + / - 1 and the sec value was 54 + / - 1 ng / ml , while at 3 hours the control value was 59 + / - 1 and the sec value was 61 + / - 1 ng / ml . in the cell culture preparation , secretin stimulated gastrin release at all doses ( control 463 + / - 85 , sec 10 ( -10 ) mol / l 603 + / - 37 , sec 10 ( -8 ) mol / l 706 + / - 37 , sec 10 ( -6 ) mol / l 798 + / - 48 pg / ml ( [ p less than 0.05 , student t test ] ) . these results indicate that secretin stimulates gastrin release directly from cultured gastrinoma cells in a dose-dependent manner but does not stimulate gastrin release from acute cell dispersion . this might be attributed partly to the recovery of secretin receptors in the cultured cells . 
evidence for nongastrin-mediated somatostatin inhibition of parietal cell function . somatostatin ( srif ) , a tetradecapeptide , has been reported to suppress gastrin release and hence inhibit acid secretion in vivo . this study was performed to determine whether srif has any direct effect on parietal cell ( pc ) . isolated gastric cells were prepared by collagenase digestion and calcium chelation of rabbit fundic mucosa . pc enrichment ( 75 % + / - 5 % ) was accomplished by velocity sedimentation with an elutriator rotor . acid , as assessed by the accumulation of 14c-aminopyrine ( ap ) and macromolecular ( intrinsic factor [ if ] ) secretion were used as markers of pc function . cells were stimulated with histamine ( h ) ( 10 ( -6 ) mol / l ) . srif ( 10 ( -10 ) to 10 ( -6 ) mol / l ) significantly inhibited h-stimulated 14c-ap accumulation ( p less than 0.05 ) . inhibition of h-stimulated if release was less sensitive , occurring at 10 ( -8 ) and 10 ( -7 ) mol / l ( p less than 0.05 ) , and loss of inhibition was observed at 10 ( -6 ) mol / l ( p less than 0.05 ) . these results demonstrate a direct inhibitory action of srif on pc secretion . the difference in inhibitory effect on if and proton secretion is consistent with the postulation that srif may function at more than one site within the pc . 
management of the zollinger-ellison syndrome in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type i . treatment of the zollinger-ellison syndrome ( zes ) in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type i ( men i ) is controversial . unlike other patients with zes who have a single tumor and in whom curative surgical resection is possible and desirable , patients with zes and men i tend to have multiple pancreatic islet cell tumors . therefore the chances for surgical cure are usually different . a retrospective review of 25 patients with zes as a manifestation of men i seen at our institution between 1960 and 1984 , an interval during which histamine type 2 ( h2 ) receptor antagonists were introduced , provided an opportunity to study this problem . follow-up averaged 6 1 / 2 years . all patients diagnosed before 1979 ( 14 patients ) underwent surgical exploration . ten patients ( 71 % ) had pancreatic procedures ( five enucleation , four partial pancreatectomy , and one enucleation of multiple nodules with subsequent total pancreatectomy ) . none of these procedures was curative , and all patients required further medical and / or surgical therapy for peptic ulceration . eighteen patients ( 72 % ) underwent gastric surgery . seven patients had subtotal gastrectomy , five of whom required subsequent total gastrectomy . thirteen patients ultimately had total gastrectomy . there were no immediate postoperative deaths . all patients with diagnoses since 1979 ( 11 patients ) had h2-antagonist therapy as primary treatment . no significant complications were associated with this approach during a mean treatment period of 26 months . only one of these patients subsequently has required gastric surgery . the proved efficacy of h2 antagonists , coupled with the recognition of the diffuse nature of the pancreatic disease in these patients , has led to a change in the therapeutic approach over the period reviewed . h2-antagonist therapy should be the initial treatment of choice in patients with men i who have zes . 
ocular toxicity from ethambutol [ editorial ] 
tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases and collagenase inhibitory activity in lung secretions from patients with chronic obstructive bronchitis : effect of corticosteroid treatment . tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases ( timp ) and collagenase inhibitory activity were measured in the sputum from nine subjects with chronic bronchitis before and five days after treatment with corticosteroid ( oral prednisolone , 40 mg daily ) . the mean sputum timp concentrations for eight of the nine subjects increased from 3.1 ( sd 0.87 ) micrograms / ml to 5.8 ( 1.9 ) micrograms / ml ( 2p less than 0.005 ) . similarly , the mean collagenase inhibitory activity in the sputum of eight of the nine subjects increased from 1.53 ( 1.1 ) u / ml to 2.69 ( 0.92 ) u / ml ( 2p less than 0.05 ) . the timp concentrations in sputum exceeded the collagenase inhibitory activity , suggesting that a proportion of the timp was inactive . timp inactivity was not due to prior complexing with enzyme since the molecular weight of sputum timp ( 27 , 500 ) was similar to that described for the purified protein ( 28 , 000-28 , 500 ) . preliminary studies showed the presence of timp in bronchoalveolar lavage samples ( range of six specimens 0.45 ng / ml-2.1 micrograms / ml , median 53 ng / ml ) . collagenase inhibitory activity was detected in only two of these six lavage samples , suggesting that the timp was totally inactive in the other four samples . the significance of the metalloproteinase-inhibitor balance in the pathogenesis of chronic lung disease requires further study . 
ventilation and gas exchange during sleep in patients with interstitial lung disease . ventilation and gas exchange during overnight sleep was studied in a group of seven patients with severe interstitial lung disease ( mean vital capacity 50 % , mean diffusing capacity 46 % predicted ) , to see whether clinically significant oxygen desaturation occurred . patients with a history of loud snoring or clinically significant airflow obstruction were excluded . sleep was fragmented in these patients , but all achieved rapid eye movement ( rem ) sleep . all patients showed episodes of oxygen desaturation during sleep--mean ( sem ) awake arterial oxygen saturation ( sao2 ) was 92.9 % ( 0.3 % ) compared with a mean minimum sao2 during sleep of 83.2 % ( 2.1 % ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . these episodes were , however , transient , and mean sao2 showed only a slight fall between wakefulness and sleep ( non-rem 91.5 % , rem 90.4 % ; ns ) . furthermore , sao2 during non-rem sleep correlated well ( p less than 0.001 ) with sao2 during wakefulness . respiratory frequency showed a significant fall between wakefulness and sleep--21.1 ( 1.8 ) versus 17.3 ( 1.5 ) breaths per minute ( p less than 0.02 ) . our data suggest that nocturnal oxygen treatment need not be considered in patients with interstitial lung disease unless the level of oxygenation while they are awake indicates the need for such treatment . 
comparison of nasal and tracheobronchial clearance by similar techniques in normal subjects . nasal and tracheobronchial mucociliary clearance have been compared in 10 healthy subjects . nasal clearance was measured by monitoring the rate of removal of 2 microns diameter teflon particles , labelled with 99mtc , which had been placed in the anterior part of the nose . tracheobronchial clearance was measured with an objective radioaerosol technique , 5 microns diameter polystyrene particles being used . with these comparable techniques there was a close correlation between the nasal mucociliary clearance rate and both the area under the tracheobronchial clearance curve from 0 to 6 hours after radioaerosol inhalation ( rs = -0.94 , p less than 0.001 ) and the area under the tracheobronchial clearance curve from 0 to 2.5 hours after inhalation ( rs = -0.79 , p less than 0.01 ) . the rate of clearance of small particles from the nose may thus be a useful guide to tracheobronchial clearance in healthy individuals . 
sarcoidosis : a disorder commoner in non-smokers ? the smoking habits of 202 patients presenting with sarcoidosis , as recorded in the clinical case records , were compared with figures from the general household surveys ( ghs ) to determine whether there was any association between smoking habit and sarcoidosis . in 19 there was no record of smoking habit . of the remaining 183 patients , 40 ( 21.9 % ) were smokers , which was significantly less than expected from the ghs figures ( p less than 0.001 ) . this association between non-smoking and sarcoidosis persisted despite further analysis by sex and age distribution and socioeconomic grouping . statistical likelihood models showed that ex-smokers were similar to current smokers with respect to the association between smoking and sarcoidosis . this association was greatest in those patients with stage i sarcoidosis and less for those with other stages of the disease . 
large lung bullae in sarcoidosis . large lung bullae are a rare manifestation of pulmonary sarcoidosis . of three patients with this complication , all had pulmonary infiltrates at presentation and two had bilateral hilar adenopathy . hypercalcaemia developed during the course of the illness in all three patients . in each case the bullae had developed within four years of the diagnosis of sarcoidosis . in one woman a bulla resolved almost completely after it had become infected . 
effect of short and long term antibiotic response on lung function in bronchiectasis . in a study designed to show whether purulent bronchial secretions damage the lung reversibly or irreversibly , 18 patients with bronchiectasis underwent lung function tests before and after two weeks ' antibiotic treatment to convert their sputum from purulent to mucoid , and 10 of them also after four months ' treatment . after two weeks fev1 , forced vital capacity , vital capacity , functional residual capacity , and total lung capacity showed small but statistically significant ( though not clinically useful ) improvements . in the 10 patients studied after four months only fvc ( of the four indices with significant improvements at two weeks in this group ) was still higher than before treatment . these results contrast with those of an earlier study , in which large acute changes were found , perhaps because of differences in the patients studied . it is concluded that the absence of major changes in lung function points to physiological abnormality that is largely irreversible in these patients with chronic bronchial sepsis . 
n-isopropyl-p [ 123i ] iodoamphetamine , a new agent for lung imaging studies . n-isopropyl-p [ 123i ] iodoamphetamine , originally designed for brain scintigraphy , has been found to be retained by the normal lung and to produce excellent camera images . ten patients with gross abnormalities on their chest radiographs due to lung cancer have been studied with this drug . the diseased parts of the lung consistently showed less uptake and these defects matched those obtained with microspheres labelled with technetium-99m , indicating that 123i-iodoamphetamine has the characteristics of a perfusion tracer . in five out of the 10 patients studied sequential studies showed that improved iodoamphetamine uptake was encountered shortly after a favourable response to radiotherapy and reduced uptake was seen in congruence with the radiation field at a later stage . this first clinical demonstration indicates that the retention of 123i-iodoamphetamine could be a sensitive marker for pulmonary vascular integrity and a useful new tool to identify the extent of disease where the pulmonary circulation is the initial site of the disorder . 
lung biopsy with the high speed drill in a developing country . the results of high speed air drill lung biopsy during 38 months in addis ababa is reported . even though the diagnostic yield was only 49 % , trephine lung biopsy has a place in the investigation of diffuse and accessible localised lesions of the lung . it has proved to be a relatively safe and simple procedure . nineteen male and 20 female patients were studied and in addition eight postmortem specimens of lung tissue were included . the chest radiograph showed diffuse pulmonary infiltrates in 42 and localised in six , with diagnostic biopsy specimens in 20 and five respectively . biopsy of the inferior lung in the lateral decubitus position in patients with diffuse lung lesions has yielded larger specimens than has routine biopsy performed in the sitting position . since the only patient who developed appreciable haemoptysis was the single patient with chronic cor pulmonale , caution should be exercised in such cases . a chest radiograph is indicated after biopsy only when the clinical condition of the patient warrants it . 
comparison of two oxygen conserving nasal prong systems and the effects of nose and mouth breathing . 
a case of middle lobe pulmonary sequestration . 
resuscitative laser photoresection of a tracheal tumour before elective surgery . 
unilateral hyperhidrosis associated with underlying intrathoracic neoplasia . 
antibiotic prophylaxis in cardiothoracic surgery in the united kingdom : current practice [ letter ] 
regional thoracic medical centres [ editorial ] 
phenotypic analysis of alveolar macrophages in normal subjects and in patients with interstitial lung disease . cytospin preparations of mononuclear inflammatory cells were made from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid obtained from 15 patients with interstitial lung disease ( nine patients with sarcoidosis and six patients with cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis ) and six control subjects . these preparations were examined with a panel of monoclonal antibodies that have been shown to distinguish subpopulations of macrophage like cells in normal tissues . the lysosomal acid phosphatase activity of the cells was also assessed . phenotypically distinct subpopulations of alveolar macrophages were identified in all samples studied . the results showed that all cell populations identified in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from the groups with interstitial lung disease could be identified in the lavage fluid from normal volunteers . some quantitative differences in the proportions of cells identified with particular reagents emerged . in each of the groups with interstitial lung disease increased proportions of cells were identified with rfd1 ( interdigitating cell marker ; p less than 0.01 ) and in the cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis group an increased proportion of alveolar macrophages was identified with rfd7 ( tissue macrophage marker ; p less than 0.05 ) . the possibility that quantitative changes in alveolar macrophage subsets observed in the interstitial lung disease groups are relevant to the pathogenesis of these conditions is discussed . 
effect of manual percussion on tracheobronchial clearance in patients with chronic airflow obstruction and excessive tracheobronchial secretion . the effect of manual percussion of the thorax in nine patients with stable chronic airflow obstruction and excessive tracheobronchial secretion has been studied . tracheobronchial clearance was measured over 50 minutes on three different days . on the first day manual percussion was applied for 10 minutes . in the period when percussion was applied the mucus clearance was slightly but significantly greater than in the periods when no percussion was applied . on the second day manual percussion was applied in combination with postural drainage , coughing , and breathing exercises for 20 minutes . this resulted in a much greater clearance than on the first day . on the third day postural drainage , coughing , and breathing exercises , but no manual percussion , were carried out for 20 minutes . there was no significant difference between the clearance of days 2 and 3. from this study it is apparent that manual percussion is a relatively ineffective procedure in patients with stable chronic airflow obstruction , but may be useful when the patient is not able to cough and cannot assume the appropriate position for postural drainage . 
beat frequency of cilia from sites of purulent infection . mucociliary clearance depends on the interaction between cilia and mucus ; it is delayed in the presence of purulent secretions . nasal mucociliary clearance was examined by the saccharin method and nasal ciliary beat frequency by a photometric technique . four groups were studied : normal controls , patients with bronchiectasis without nasal symptoms , patients with chronic mucopurulent sinusitis alone , and patients with chronic mucopurulent sinusitis and bronchiectasis . nasal mucociliary clearance was prolonged in infected patients . cilia obtained from the site of purulent secretions were found to beat more slowly in vitro ( mucopurulent sinusitis 12.1 hz , mucopurulent sinusitis and bronchiectasis 11.6 hz ) , than those obtained from normal controls ( 14.3 hz ) and from patients with bronchiectasis alone ( 13.6 hz ) . the cause of the ciliary slowing seemed most likely to be the release of host factors during the inflammatory response , rather than the particular organism isolated . ciliary slowing may contribute to the observed delay of mucociliary clearance in conditions in which purulent secretions are present . 
assisted ventilation in severe acute asthma . during the period 1973-85 assisted ventilation was used for the treatment of severe asthma on 48 occasions in 18 patients ( one patient was ventilated 29 times ) . on each occasion arterial blood gas abnormalities were restored to normal as quickly as possible irrespective of peak inflation pressures . one patient was thought to be brain dead on transfer from another hospital but was ventilated for 48 hours while this diagnosis was confirmed . there was one episode of mediastinal emphysema . there were no other complications apart from transient hypotension ( blood pressure less than 100 / 60 mm hg ) , which occurred on 17 occasions but did not have any sequelae . there was no relationship between hypotension and inflation pressure but there was an association between hypotension and rate of fall of arterial carbon dioxide tension . it is concluded that the risks of barotrauma during the ventilation of patients with severe asthma are theoretical or extremely small . rapid correction of respiratory acidosis abolishes hypercapnic respiratory drive , allowing ventilation without use of muscle relaxants . it may also enable a shorter duration of ventilation , thus decreasing the likelihood of complications . 
rate of improvement of pulmonary function in sarcoidosis during treatment with corticosteroids . serial measurements of vital capacity were obtained in 11 patients with impaired pulmonary function due to sarcoidosis during 12 courses of corticosteroid treatment . vital capacity improved promptly and approached a maximum value in about three weeks . a three week trial is probably sufficient to show whether or not corticosteroids are effective in a patient with sarcoidosis . 
bronchial brushing and bronchial biopsy : comparison of diagnostic accuracy and cell typing reliability in lung cancer . a total of 443 patients with lung cancer underwent brush and forceps biopsy through a fibreoptic bronchoscope . the biopsy was taken from the area of suspected malignancy which had been brushed . of 443 patients , 400 ( 90.3 % ) showed positive results on brushing and 287 ( 64.8 % ) on biopsy . a combination of both techniques yielded the highest percentage of positive diagnosis ( 93.7 % ) . histologically , there was a high incidence of positive diagnosis for squamous and small cell carcinoma . one hundred and three ( 83.7 % ) of 123 specimens obtained by brushing and 75 ( 81.5 % ) of 92 specimens obtained by biopsy agreed with the cell type found in the surgical or necropsy specimen . cell typing accuracy was higher in squamous and in small cell carcinoma in both techniques . as the cell typing accuracy of the two methods is similar , the results obtained by both techniques should be taken into consideration in the management of individual cases of lung cancer . 
survival in small cell lung carcinoma after surgery . in a retrospective study of long term survival in patients with small cell carcinoma of the lung who had been treated purely by surgery , 1820 patients with lung cancer seen during the 15 years 1962-77 were reviewed and reclassified histologically and according to the tnm system . of these patients , 924 had had resections and 284 exploratory thoracotomies . cancer chemotherapy was not used in this period and radiotherapy was given only occasionally as palliative treatment . seventy seven of the patients having pulmonary resections had small cell carcinoma ( 8.4 % ) , and there were six survivors among the 71 with t1-2 , n0-1 , m0 tumours . the five and 10 year survival rates were both 12 % . the histological specimens from these six patients with a small cell carcinoma who survived more than 10 years were re-evaluated and confirmed as small cell by an independent group of pathologists . it seems justified to conclude that a selected group of patients with small cell carcinoma should be treated by surgery alone without adjuvant chemotherapy , which might reduce the long term survival . 
recent experience of the treatment of aspergilloma with a surgical stapling device . 
a new bronchoscopy set for laser therapy . 
metastatic meningioma of the lung . 
pulmonary toxoplasmoma presenting as obstructive pneumonia . 
haemothorax in the course of chickenpox . 
pleural effusion in iraq : a prospective study of 100 cases . 
late results of plombage [ letter ] 
measurement of abdominal wall compliance in normal subjects and tetraplegic patients . on inspiration descent of the diaphragm is opposed by the passive properties of the abdominal wall , the tone of its muscles , and the inertia of the abdominal contents . as a result , intra-abdominal pressure rises and promotes rib cage expansion . in patients with high spinal injury the diaphragm is the most important muscle of inspiration and abdominal wall displacement is more evident than in normal subjects . abdominal wall compliance has been measured by relating gastric pressure to abdominal wall displacement , which was determined by means of an optical contour mapping system . six normal subjects and six tetraplegic patients were studied in the supine posture , during passive expiration from total lung capacity to functional residual capacity . over this lung volume range the normal subjects partitioned an average of 31 % of expired volume to the abdominal compartment , while the corresponding average figure in the patients was 77 % of expired volume . since the range of gastric pressure was similar in the two groups , it is concluded that abdominal wall compliance is greater in tetraplegic patients . this high compliance could have a detrimental effect on lower rib cage expansion . 
effect of cigarette smoking on nasal mucociliary clearance and ciliary beat frequency . despite the in vitro ciliotoxicity of tobacco smoke and the abnormal mucociliary clearance found in smoking related chronic bronchitis , studies of mucociliary clearance in healthy smokers have produced variable results . the nasal mucociliary clearance of saccharin and the in vitro nasal ciliary beat frequency were studied in healthy smokers and non-smokers . one of 29 smokers had a nasal mucociliary clearance time of over 60 minutes ; in the remaining 28 the mean ( sd ) clearance time was 20.8 ( 9.3 ) minutes , which was significantly longer ( p less than 0.001 ) than the mean time of 11.1 ( 3.8 ) minutes in 27 lifelong non-smokers . there was no significant difference between the mean nasal ciliary beat frequency of 10 smokers and 10 non-smokers . there were no significant differences in mean ciliary beat frequency or mean nasal mucociliary clearance time after 10 healthy non-smoking volunteers had smoked two cigarettes each , exhaling the smoke through their nostrils . unless there is a prompt reversal of any ciliotoxic effect of tobacco smoke when cilia are removed for in vitro examination , the defective clearance seen in chronic cigarette smokers seems unlikely to be due to slowed ciliary beat frequency . it may be due to reduction in number of cilia or to change in the viscoelastic properties of mucus . the failure to detect any acute effect of tobacco smoke is in keeping with this hypothesis . 
functional small airways defence in symptomless cigarette smokers . smoking induced changes in the secretory cells of bronchiolar epithelium by facilitating secretion of cross linked glycoprotein mucus may influence the efficiency of mucus-cilia coupling . the functional impact on mucociliary transport in small ( peripheral ) airways has been studied by comparing data on aerosol deposition and clearance from symptomless cigarette smokers ( 30 tests , 18 subjects ) with data from age matched non-smokers ( 30 tests , 19 subjects ) . gamma camera images , assessed in terms of a penetration index comparing peripheral with inner zone deposition , indicated closely similar initial deposition in the two groups . alveolar deposition , however , assessed in terms of particle retention at 24 hours , was significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) less in the smokers . given the similarity of initial deposition , this implies that an increased proportion of small conducting airways are protected by mucociliary defence in the smokers ' lungs . clearance from conducting airways of the peripheral zone in tests with relatively high peripheral deposition ( 14 tests on smokers , and 12 on non-smokers ) nevertheless proceeded at the same rate in smokers as in non-smokers . 
central lymph node changes and progressive massive fibrosis in coalworkers . lungs from 123 coalworkers coming to necropsy were examined to determine the association between dust related changes in the central lymph nodes and progressive massive fibrosis and secondary foci in the lung parenchyma . increasingly extensive changes of the central nodes were scored macroscopically , the highest scores indicating erosion through the walls of adjacent bronchi or branches of the pulmonary artery or both . in 88 cases ( mainly with extensive changes ) microscopic assessment was also made . increasingly extensive changes of central nodes were associated with the presence of progressive massive fibrosis in the lungs ( p less than 0.001 ) and the presence of secondary foci in lungs without progressive massive fibrosis ( p less than 0.03 ) . microscopic assessments agreed fairly well with macroscopic assessments , but tended to be assigned lower scores . a hypothesis for the pathogenesis of progressive massive fibrosis is proposed whereby dust , accumulating in central lymph nodes , leads eventually to spread through the capsule and rupture into bronchi or pulmonary vessels , thereby sending dust laden activated cells back into the lungs to produce progressive massive fibrosis . these preliminary results are consistent with the hypothesis but more detailed studies are required . 
skin tests in bird breeder 's disease . the diagnostic value of skin tests was assessed in 35 patients affected by bird breeder 's disease by comparing the results with those obtained in a group of 27 symptomless breeders and 10 symptomless unexposed individuals . sterilised and diluted serum and lyophilised extracts of faeces prepared from the breeder 's own birds were injected intradermally . skinprick tests using the same materials were carried out simultaneously . the intradermal test using serum showed a positive reaction in 18 out of 20 patients tested and in three out of 20 symptomless breeders ( p less than 0.0005 ) ; later reactions occurred in eight of the patients and one of the symptomless breeders ( p less than 0.01 ) . a delayed reaction was seen in five of the patients and one of the symptomless breeders ( p = 0.09 ) . no positive reactions were recorded in symptomless unexposed individuals . intradermal skin testing using extracts of faeces yielded an immediate reaction in 19 of 21 patients and in three of 11 symptomless breeders tested ( p less than 0.001 ) ; a late reaction was seen in 18 of the patients and in five of the symptomless breeders ( p less than 0.05 ) . delayed reactions occurred in 11 of the 21 patients tested , whereas no positive responses were seen in symptomless breeders ( p less than 0.025 ) . skinprick tests gave negative results in all cases . skin testing constitutes a simple , quick , and safe procedure that can assist the differential diagnosis between individuals with bird breeder 's disease and symptomless breeders , the immediate reaction being similar in its sensitivity to testing for serum precipitins but possessing greater specificity . 
influence of circulating alpha adrenoceptor agonists on lung function in patients with exercise induced asthma and healthy subjects . the influence of circulating noradrenaline ( in this context primarily a non-selective alpha agonist ) and the alpha 1 selective agonist phenylephrine on bronchial tone , blood pressure , and heart rate was studied in eight patients with exercise induced asthma and eight age and sex matched controls . all subjects refrained from taking treatment for at least one week before the trial . the agonists were infused intravenously in stepwise increasing doses of 0.04 , 0.085 , 0.17 , and 0.34 micrograms / kg a minute for noradrenaline and 0.5 , 1.0 , 2.0 , and 4.0 micrograms / kg a minute for phenylephrine . at the highest dose the plasma concentration of noradrenaline was about 30 nmol / l , resembling the concentrations found during intense exercise , and that of phenylephrine was about 400 nmol / l . both agonists caused dose dependent and similar increases in blood pressure in the two groups . despite clearcut cardiovascular effects ( systolic and diastolic blood pressure increased by about 40-50 / 25-30 mm hg ) , neither agonist altered lung function , as assessed by measurements of specific airway compliance ( sgaw ) , peak expiratory flow ( pef ) , or end expiratory flow rate , in either group . it is concluded that circulating alpha agonists , whether alpha 1 selective ( phenylephrine ) or non-selective ( noradrenaline ) , fail to alter basal bronchial tone in patients with exercise induced asthma or in healthy subjects . 
short term response of patients with bronchiectasis to treatment with amoxycillin given in standard or high doses orally or by inhalation . the effect of three amoxycillin treatment regimens on purulent secretions of patients with bronchiectasis has been studied . on the basis of information recorded on a diary card the patients were divided into three groups , according to the usual nature of their secretions : seven who produced mucoid sputum , which occasionally became purulent ; seven whose secretions were usually mucopurulent but occasionally purulent ; and 19 whose secretions were persistently purulent . treatment with capsules of amoxycillin in a dosage of 250 mg three times a day resulted in clearance of purulent secretions in patients of the mucoid group when they were treated for a clinical exacerbation . the sputum remained clear in these patients for long periods before a further exacerbation ( median 6 1 / 2 , range 1-11 months ) . the mucopurulent-purulent group also responded to this dosage but sputum purulence returned more rapidly ( median 9 , range 4-31 days ) . only three of the 19 ( 17 % ) patients with persistently purulent secretions showed a macroscopic response to this dosage , whereas seven ( 60 % ) of 12 patients who received the higher dosage ( 3 g sachets twice a day ) responded . among the failures , some responded to nebulised amoxycillin , suggesting that higher levels of amoxycillin in secretions are required in these patients . macroscopic clearance of purulent secretions was finally achieved in most of the patients studied . the response was not always predictable from the results of sputum culture . clearance of secretions by antibiotics was also identified by the patients , using a diary card score . improvements in well being and in symptoms were noticed even in the group who usually produced mucopurulent and purulent secretions even though they appeared to be clinically stable before treatment . 
lung disease after exposure to polyvinyl chloride dust . 
asthma , eosinophilic pleuropneumonia , and pericarditis without vasculitis . 
carcinoma of the lung presenting with digital ischaemia . 
symptomatic fibrous dysplasia of the right first rib excised via a posterolateral thoracotomy . 
effects of protriptyline on sleep related disturbances of breathing in restrictive chest wall disease . the effects of protriptyline on sleep stage distribution and gas exchange have been assessed in eight patients with nocturnal hypoventilation secondary to restrictive chest wall disease . at a dose of 10-20 mg taken when they retired the total sleeping time was unaltered but the proportion of rapid eye movement ( rem ) sleep fell from 22 % to 12 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . the total time spent at an arterial oxygen saturation of less than 80 % decreased ( p less than 0.01 ) and the magnitude of the fall correlated with the reduction in rem sleep ( r = 0.67 , p less than 0.05 ) . there was also a reduction in the maximum carbon dioxide tension reached during the night ( p less than 0.01 ) . the arterial oxygen tension measured diurnally increased ( p less than 0.05 ) from a median of 8.0 kpa ( 60 mm hg ) to 9.0 kpa ( 67.5 mm hg ) , but the carbon dioxide tension and base excess were unchanged . anticholinergic side effects were experienced by most patients but did not limit treatment . 
silicosis in barium miners . four men who mined barytes in scotland and who developed pneumoconiosis are described . three developed progressive massive fibrosis , from which two died ; and one developed a nodular simple pneumoconiosis after leaving the industry . the radiological and pathological features of the men 's lungs were those of silicosis and high proportions of quartz were found in two of them post mortem . the quartz was inhaled from rocks associated with the barytes in the mines . the features of silicosis in barium miners are contrasted with the benign pneumoconiosis , baritosis , that occurs in workers exposed to crushed and ground insoluble barium salts . diagnostic difficulties arise when silicosis develops in workers mining minerals known to cause a separate and benign pneumoconiosis . these difficulties are compounded when , as not infrequently happens , the silicotic lesions develop or progress after exposure to quartz has ceased . 
relationship between silicosis and rheumatoid arthritis . the relationship between rheumatoid arthritis and silicosis was studied by means of a case-control study in south african gold miners . one hundred and fifty seven miners with rheumatoid arthritis classified as " definite " ( 91 ) or " probable " ( 66 ) were individually matched by year of birth with miners who had no evidence of rheumatoid arthritis . unmatched analysis of the case-control status for " probable " and " definite " cases yielded an odds ratio of 2.84 ( p = 0.0001 ) . separate analyses yielded an odds ratio of 3.79 ( p = 0.0006 ) for " definite " cases , a non-significant odds ratio for " probable " cases , and an odds ratio of 5.00 ( p = 0.0003 ) for the presence of rheumatoid factor . these results could not be explained on the basis of cumulative dust exposure or intensity of exposure . the rate of progression of silicosis in both the " definite " and the " probable " groups was greater than for the control patients with silicosis , as was the probability of silicosis presenting at the start with larger nodules ( type r ) . 
estimation of regional gas and tissue volumes of the lung in supine man using computed tomography . this study was intended to discover how well computed tomography could recover the volume and weight of lung like foams in a body like shell , and then how well it could recover the volume and weight of the lungs in supine man . model thoraces were made with various loaves of bread submerged in water . computed tomography scans recovered the volume of the model lungs ( true volume range 250-12 , 500 ml ) within +0.2 ( sd 68 ) ml and their weights ( true range 72-3125 g ) within +30 ( 78 ) g . scans also recovered successive injections of 50 ml of water , within + / - 5 ml . scans in 12 healthy supine men recovered their vital capacities , total lung capacities ( tlc ) , and predicted tissue volumes with comparable accuracy . at total lung capacity the mean tissue volume of single lungs was 431 ( 64 ) ml and at residual volume ( rv ) it was 427 ( 63 ) ml . tissue volume was then used to match inspiratory and expiratory slices and calculate regional ventilation . throughout the mid 90 % of lung the rv / tlc ratio was fairly constant--mean 21 % ( 5 % ) . new methods of presenting such regional data graphically and automatically are also described . 
relationship between changed alveolar-capillary permeability and angiotensin converting enzyme activity in serum in sarcoidosis . the effect of altered alveolar-capillary permeability on angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) activity in serum ( sace ) was studied in 45 patients with sarcoidosis and 21 healthy controls . in sarcoidosis increased albumin concentrations in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( l albumin ) and increased ratios of l albumin to albumin in serum ( s albumin ) indicated an increased permeability of the alveolar-capillary membrane . ace activity in the lavage fluid ( lace ) was correlated with the number of alveolar macrophages in controls , indicating that it may come from these cells . lace was high in active sarcoidosis while in inactive disease it was similar to that in controls . sace in sarcoidosis was significantly increased . ninety per cent of patients with increased l albumin had increased sace . sace activity was significantly correlated with concentrations of l albumin and with lace activity . the relationships between signs of increased membrane permeability and sace and between lace and sace suggest that excess sace in sarcoidosis may , at least partly , originate in the alveolar space . 
legionnaires ' disease : a review of 79 community acquired cases in nottingham . seventy nine cases of sporadic , community acquired legionnaires ' disease have been reviewed . annual and seasonal variation in incidence was noted . the mean age of the patients was 53 years and 50 ( 63 % ) were male . pre-existing chronic diseases were present in only 23 ( 29 % ) , including two patients receiving immunosuppressive treatment . common symptoms included unproductive cough , dyspnoea , chest pain , headache , confusion , nausea , vomiting , and diarrhoea . respiratory symptoms were absent , however , in 17 ( 22 % ) . localising chest signs were present in 74 ( 95 % ) cases . frequent laboratory findings included lymphopenia , high erythrocyte sedimentation rate , hyponatraemia , raised urea and creatinine concentrations , abnormal liver function , hypophosphataemia , hypoalbuminaemia , proteinuria , and haematuria . thirteen patients died ( 16 % ) , including nine of 20 who received assisted ventilation . the mortality rate in patients treated with erythromycin ( 11 % ) was lower than in those who received other antibiotics ( 23 % ) , but this difference was not statistically significant . of the features noted on admission , only a high plasma urea concentration was significantly associated with death . sporadic community acquired legionnaires ' disease is a not uncommon disorder , which with appropriate treatment has a prognosis similar to that of other forms of community acquired pneumonia . 
delayed pneumothorax after transbronchial lung biopsy . 
primary leiomyosarcoma of the lung presenting with a persistent pneumothorax . 
tuberculous pleural effusion occurring during corticosteroid treatment of sarcoidosis . 
failure of a bioprosthetic mitral valve due to attachment of a residual chorda . 
exogenous particles in lymph nodes in patients with shrinking pleuritis with atelectasis [ letter ] 
new complications associated with the angelchik prosthesis [ letter ] 
effect of infused vasoactive intestinal peptide on airway function in normal subjects . vasoactive intestinal peptide , one of the putative neurotransmitters of non-adrenergic inhibitory nerves in human airways , is a potent relaxant of human airways in vitro . previous in vivo studies of infused vasoactive intestinal peptide in asthmatic subjects have shown only a small bronchodilator effect , which may have been secondary to the cardiovascular effects of the peptide . the effect on airway function of infused vasoactive intestinal peptide was studied in normal subjects , who readily develop bronchodilation in response to a beta agonist . separate experiments were designed to assess whether there is any synergy between this peptide and the beta agonist isoprenaline . incremental doses of 1 , 3 , and 6 pmol / kg / min of vasoactive intestinal peptide were infused for 15 minutes . at 6 pmol / kg / min it caused a mean fall in systolic blood pressure from 108 to 88 mm hg and a rise in heart rate from 71 to 95 beats / min . there was no significant change in specific airways conductance ( sgaw ) at any dose of vasoactive intestinal peptide . no significant changes were found with placebo . isoprenaline ( 400 microgram ) given by inhalation at the end of the infusion produced a mean increase in sgaw of 50 % . infused peptide caused no significant change in the cumulative dose-response curve for inhaled isoprenaline . the lack of effect of vasoactive intestinal peptide on airway responses in vivo may be due to rapid enzymatic breakdown of the peptide or to the fact that dosage has to be limited by the cardiovascular effects . 
influence of knowledge of peak flow on self assessment of asthma : studies with a coded peak flow meter . a portable peak flow meter based on a turbine transducer that can display results in code has been developed . its performance compares well with the wright peak flow meter . records of subjective self assessment of asthma on a visual analogue scale and of peak flow ( pef ) were compared in 12 subjects with asthma . pef measurements were made with a coded meter for two weeks and an uncoded meter for two weeks in random order . the correlation between visual analogue scale score and pef was invariably stronger when pef was known . changes in perception of asthma were measured by comparing the slopes and relative positions of the regressions of visual analogue on pef . when pef was uncoded awareness of asthma was significantly increased in five patients , predominantly those whose perception was poorest while they were using the coded meter , and decreased in only one patient . in two patients the results were unsuitable for this type of analysis . knowledge of pef therefore may influence subjective self assessment in patients with bronchial asthma . for objective studies of symptoms of asthma , pef readings should be unknown to the patient . perception of asthma may , however , be improved in patients with poor ability to detect changes in bronchial calibre by uncoded measurement of peak flow at home . 
effect of sleep deprivation on overnight bronchoconstriction in nocturnal asthma . nocturnal cough and wheeze are common in asthma . the cause of nocturnal asthma is unknown and there is conflicting evidence on whether sleep is a factor . twelve adult asthmatic subjects with nocturnal wheeze were studied on two occasions : on one night subjects were allowed to sleep and on the other they were kept awake all night , wakefulness being confirmed by electroencephalogram . every patient developed bronchoconstriction overnight both on the asleep night , when peak expiratory flow ( pef ) fell from a mean ( se ) of 418 ( 40 ) 1 min-1 at 10 pm to 270 ( 46 ) 1 min-1 in the morning , and on the awake night ( pef 10 pm 465 ( 43 ) , morning 371 ( 43 ) 1 min-1 ) . the morning values of pef were , however , higher ( p less than 0.1 ) after the awake night and both the absolute and the percentage overnight falls in pef were greater when the patients slept ( asleep night 38 % ( 6 % ) , awake night 20 % ( 4 % ) ; p less than 0.01 ) . this study suggests that sleep is an important factor in determining overnight bronchoconstriction in patients with nocturnal asthma . 
short duration combination chemotherapy in the treatment of small cell lung cancer . ninety five patients ( 57 with limited disease and 38 with extensive disease ) with previously untreated small cell lung cancer were entered into a study of short duration combination chemotherapy with intravenous cyclophosphamide ( 750 mg / m2 ) on day 1 , adriamycin ( 40 mg / m2 ) on day 1 , and etoposide vp-16 ( 100 mg / m2 ) on days 1 , 2 , and 3 , with the addition on day 10 of methotrexate 50 mg / m2 with folinic acid rescue and vincristine 2 mg . the treatment was repeated on day 22 and only three courses were given . no maintenance chemotherapy was given , though patients with a complete response received radiotherapy ( 30-40 gy ( 3000-4000 rads ] to the primary site in most cases . forty nine patients ( 86 % ) with limited disease achieved a response , with 26 ( 46 % ) complete remissions . twenty five patients ( 66 % ) with extensive disease had a response , but only eight ( 21 % ) had a complete response . actuarial survival analysis for the whole patient population showed a median survival of 13 months for patients with limited disease and seven months for those with extensive disease . the median survival was 14 months for those patients with limited disease who achieved a complete response , but only 10 months for non-responders . myelosuppression was the major expression of toxicity . there were three deaths related to treatment and seven patients had febrile episodes during neutropenia that required antibiotics . mucositis , which was usually mild , occurred in 49 % of patients . the primary site was the main site of initial relapse in 56 % of the patients who relapsed . among patients with limited disease who achieved a complete response , relapses at the primary site were less common in those who received radiotherapy ( five out of 12 ) than in those who did not ( all eight ) . the results indicate that this short duration chemotherapy in small cell lung cancer gives response rates and the potential for long term survival similar to those obtained in other series while allowing patients the maximum time free from treatment . 
pulmonary haemodynamics of the yak , cattle , and cross breeds at high altitude . the pulmonary arterial pressure of ladakhi yaks , at an altitude of about 4500m , was not significantly different from that found in yaks bred at low altitude . the pulmonary arterial resistance , however , was slightly but significantly increased in the high altitude group . it is concluded that the yak has adapted genetically to high altitude by largely eliminating the hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstrictor response . the pulmonary arterial pressure and resistance were significantly higher in indigenous himalayan cattle than in the yaks . the dzo ( cow x yak ) had pulmonary haemodynamics similar to those of the yak . half of the stols ( dzo x bull ) had pulmonary haemodynamics similar to those of the yak , while in the other half the findings resembled those in the cow . the results suggest that the genetic attenuation of the hypoxic vasoconstrictor response is transmitted as a simple autosomal dominant . 
non-respiratory symptoms of acute asthma . 
low dose methotrexate pneumonitis in rheumatoid arthritis . 
changes in anti-hla antibody levels associated with immunosuppression . 
proceedings of an international conference on the pharmacology of cyclosporine . july 31-august 3 , 1986 , hardangervidda , norway . 
the use of monoclonal antibodies to probe the surface of cyclosporines . 
studies of cyclosporine blood levels : analysis , clinical utility , pharmacokinetics , metabolites , and chronopharmacology . 
the pharmacokinetics of cyclosporine a in uremic patients . 
cyclosporine and analogues : structural requirements for immunosuppressive activity . 
biotransformation and distribution in blood of cyclosporine and its metabolites . 
critique of cyclosporine pharmacokinetic measurements . 
cyclosporine forever ? 
prologue : of hardangervidda , tolypocladium , trolls , askelad , and cyclosporine . 
nephrotoxic and immunosuppressive potentials of cyclosporine metabolites in rats . 
cyclosporine a : a clinical evaluation of drug interactions . 
drug interactions with cyclosporine : implications from animal studies . 
cyclosporine in blood and thoracic duct lymph in rat . 
renal handling and nephrotoxic effects of 3h-cyclosporine in the hen . 
urinary tract infections . 
troubleshooting the diuretic renogram . 
characteristics of spinal cord compression in adenocarcinoma of prostate . of 611 patients with biopsy-proved adenocarcinoma of the prostate , spinal cord compression developed in 41 ( 6.7 % ) at a median interval of twenty-four months after primary diagnosis . spinal cord involvement most often occurred in the thoracic area , with 95 per cent of patients showing radiographic evidence of osseous vertebral metastasis at the level of cord compression . all lesions but one were located extradurally , and patients with stage d2 disease , by virtue of bony metastases , were therefore at greatest risk for development of neurologically compressive disease . there was also a significant increase in the incidence of spinal cord involvement among the more poorly differentiated tumors , although tumor histology did not appear to influence the median interval between vertebral metastasis and cord compromise . survival following spinal cord involvement was relatively poor and unrelated to tumor differentiation . forty-six per cent of patients survived less than six months and 20 per cent less than two months . the two most noteworthy survivors are alive at thirty and ninety-seven months , the latter after combined treatment for an intradural lesion . 
management of urinary calculi in pregnancy . when a calculus is present in the upper urinary tract during pregnancy , the upper tract dilatation seen on radiography and ultrasonography can be due to the calculus or to the pregnancy . this makes the decision on management difficult unless there are associated clinical findings of pain or sepsis . the records of 24 pregnant patients with proved urinary calculi were reviewed . the stone passed spontaneously in 18 patients , and procedures to remove the stone were required in 6 for pain and / or sepsis . with an upper urinary tract calculus and dilatation during pregnancy the deciding factors for intervention were the clinical findings of pain and / or sepsis and not the dilatation alone . 
clinical experience with low dosage of propionohydroxamic acid ( pha ) in infected renal stones . the use of drugs inhibiting bacterial urease represents an interesting improvement in preventive treatment of renal infected stones . the low dose ( 120 mg / day ) for one week followed by 60 mg / day of propionohydroxamic acid ( pha ) has shown excellent anti-urease activity . the nearly normal absence of side effects also allows long-term administration . 
biochemical risk factors in patients with renal staghorn stone disease . thirty-three patients operated on for renal staghorn calculous disease were studied retrospectively with respect to urine and stone composition , bacteriuria , and abnormalities of the urinary tract . calcium phosphate was the most common stone constituent , present in 30 of 31 concrements . twenty-one of these stones also contained magnesium ammonium phosphate , despite the fact that only 10 patients had presented evidence of urinary tract infection during the initial period of the disease . twenty-four-hour urine composition was normal in only 3 patients . in 59 per cent an increased caox risk index was observed suggesting that caox risk factors might contribute to the development of staghorn concrements . a metabolic evaluation of staghorn stone formers appears to be of importance for design of the postoperative treatment . 
ambulatory extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy . the kidney stone center in fort lauderdale , florida , is an ambulatory eswl facility where 226 patients have been treated since july , 1985. a total of 258 kidneys were treated over a period of five months with a success rate of 99 per cent . the post-treatment admission rate , both immediate and delayed , was 14.2 per cent . outpatient eswl treatment of both renal and ureteral calculi is feasible , medically safe , and cost-effective . 
reliability of ams m700 inflatable penile prosthesis . two hundred ninety patients have been followed up for at least one year or longer after implantation of the ams m700 inflatable penile prosthesis . one hundred twenty-seven males have been followed up for two years or longer . eighty-six impotent men had a follow-up of eighteen months or longer . the remaining 77 patients were studied for at least twelve months or longer . there have been 3 mechanical failures of cylinders implanted secondary to nonabsorbable surgical sutures remaining from previous prosthetic surgery . there were no reservoir or pump malfunctions . eight patients had a slow leak from the nonkinking tubing . since a revision of the manufacturing process of the nonkinking tubing in september , 1983 , there have been no further leaks . life table analysis for survival in this group of patients showed a probability of survival at three years of 97.9 per cent . the satisfaction rate among patients is greater than 90 per cent . 
potential problems with testicular prostheses . in a survey of members of the western section of the american urological association who had testicular prostheses inserted within the preceding ten years , the responses indicated that the overall complication rate for this procedure is low . generally , the scrotal cavity distends easily to a size adequate to accommodate the prosthesis . however , in cases of delayed secondary scrotal surgery , or when a previous inflammatory process has existed in the scrotum , the limited scrotal distensibility may lead to further complications . 
constipation associated with vesicoureteral reflux . seventeen children who had vesicoureteral reflux underwent urodynamic and rectal manometric studies . all had uninhibited bladder contractions . all had rectal dilatation confirming the presence of constipation by rectal balloon manometry . the recurrent association of constipation with ureteral reflux suggests the possibility of a nonfortuitous association . 
ureteroscopic management of ureteral cholesteatoma . cholesteatoma of the upper urinary tract is a rare nonmalignant condition histologically characterized by keratinized desquamative squamous metaplasia . most cases have been managed by extensive ablative surgery . we describe a new approach in the diagnosis and management of a patient with ureteral cholesteatoma using transurethral ureteroscopy and evacuation . 
rectourethral fistula : a rare cause of infertility . rectourethral fistulas are rare , and infertility due to rectal ejaculation is extremely rare . we report a case of congenital rectourethral fistula presenting as infertility due to rectal ejaculation . 
sex hormone receptors in localized and advanced transitional cell carcinoma of urinary tract in humans . sex hormone receptors were identified in patients with localized and advanced transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder and kidney . dihydrotestosterone and testosterone receptors were found most consistently in the specimens analyzed . estrogen receptors were found less frequently . androgen receptors in transitional cell carcinoma may prove to be a useful biologic marker in this disease . 
tobramycin and renal ischemia . sprague-dawley rats were injected with known nephrotoxic doses of tobramycin and then subjected to varying amounts of warm renal ischemia . analysis of serum creatinine at the time of sacrifice revealed no statistically significant difference among controls and the two doses of tobramycin at any given duration of ischemia . light microscopy revealed no worsening of tubular necrosis with increasing doses of tobramycin . 
tuberous sclerosis with angiomyolipoma and metastasized hypernephroma . this is a case report of a patient with angiomyolipomas in both kidneys which was confirmed in one kidney by open biopsy and histologic examination . two years after diagnosis of the angiomyolipomatosis , the patient died of metastatic hypernephromas of both kidneys . the tumors had affected the kidneys almost totally ; only in the right kidney were remnants of the angiomyolipoma still recognizable . a review of the literature shows how rare is the simultaneous occurrence of angiomyolipomas and hypernephroma . 
vascular calcification presenting as necrosis of penis in patient with chronic renal failure . an unusual presentation of metastatic calcification as gangrene of the penis is reported in a patient with chronic renal failure on maintenance hemodialysis . calcification of the vessels of the penis was documented radiographically and pathologically . recognition of the possible occurrence of this complication becomes of great importance in younger patients on dialysis or with kidney transplants . 
congenital varicella causing neurogenic bladder and anal dysfunction . an infant with congenital varicella syndrome due to maternal varicella zoster is presented . unlike other reports in which such infection caused multiple congenital defects , our patient suffers from atonic bladder and anal dysfunction as the sole manifestation of congenital varicella syndrome . attention is called for maternal varicella as a possible cause for limited neurologic damage in the fetus . 
vesicouterine fistuli . three cases of vesicouterine fistuli secondary to cesarean section are reported . the first 2 cases presented as vaginal urinary incontinence and cyclic hematuria , whereas the last case presented as bloody urinary loss from the vagina in the immediate postoperative period . the treatment was surgical in the former 2 cases and conservative in the latter case . the literature is briefly reviewed , and the treatment options are discussed . 
simplified method of indwelling ureteral stent removal . 
scrotal placement of reservoir of inflatable penile prosthesis . 
epidermoid cyst of testis . 
case pro replaced-url double-j catheter encrustation . 
the posterior " nutcracker " : hematuria secondary to retroaortic left renal vein . retroaortic left renal vein is an uncommon variant in the renal venous system . recently a patient with such anomaly presented to us with hematuria . 
use of preoperative uroflowmetry and simultaneous urethrocystometry for predicting risk of prolonged postoperative bladder drainage . to select patients at increased risk of needing prolonged postoperative bladder drainage after incontinence surgery , the data obtained from preoperative uroflowmetry and voiding urethrocystometry were analyzed in a group of 43 patients for presence and / or absence of reduced flow rates and detrusor contraction during voiding . all patients with adequate detrusor contraction and flow rates were able to resume spontaneous voiding by the seventh postoperative day . one third of patients voiding without detrusor contraction needed prolonged bladder drainage ( p less than 0.05 ) . presence of normal flow rates reduced their risk to 20 per cent while reduced flow rates enhanced their risk to 100 per cent ( p less than 0.05 ) . changes observed in urethral pressure , abdominal pressures , and flow rates individually were not significant predictors of the need for prolonged bladder drainage . 
cefsulodin in treatment of pseudomonas urinary tract infection in patients with spinal cord injury . comparison with aminoglycosides . male patients with spinal cord injury and urinary tract infection with pseudomonas aeruginosa were treated with cefsulodin ( 1.0 or 1.5 gm ) every six hours or an aminoglycoside ( amikacin 5 mg / kg or tobramycin 1 mg / kg ) every eight hours for seven days . the study was discontinued after treating 6 patients with aminoglycosides because of the poor results with these antibiotics . at five to nine days after completing treatment p . aeruginosa was eliminated from the urine of 12 to 15 patients ( 80 % ) treated with cefsulodin and 3 of 6 patients ( 50 % ) treated with an aminoglycoside . when examined at four to six weeks 5 of 15 ( 33 % ) of the cefsulodin group had persistent infection or relapse , while 5 of 6 ( 83 % ) infections treated with an aminoglycoside either persisted or relapsed . cefsulodin was discontinued in 1 patient , known to be allergic to penicillin , because of hypersensitivity resulting in periorbital edema and rash . no other serious side effects were noted with cefsulodin or the aminoglycosides . these results indicate that cefsulodin is an effective antibiotic in the treatment of urinary tract infection with p . aeruginosa in patients with neurogenic bladder resulting from spinal cord injury and confirmed previous observations of a poor response of pseudomonas urinary tract infection to aminoglycosides in this group of patients . 
management of microscopic hematuria : twenty-year experience with 150 cases in a community hospital . 
pelvic rhabdomyosarcoma : a review of the rpmi experience . between 1959 and 1983 , 16 patients with pelvic rhabdomyosarcoma were treated at roswell park memorial institute ( rpmi ) . a multidisciplinary approach was utilized consisting of surgery , radiotherapy ( xrt ) , and combined chemotherapy which resulted in prolonged survivals of thirteen to one hundred forty-four months in 10 patients . this improved survival was observed despite the fact that 63 per cent of the patients ( 10 / 16 ) presented with advanced stages of the disease . herein we present a retrospective study of these 16 patients . 
lower urinary tract dysfunction after radical hysterectomy for carcinoma of cervix . the charts of 22 consecutive patients who had undergone radical hysterectomy for carcinoma of the cervix were reviewed retrospectively . uroflowmetry , gas cystometry , and postvoid residual measurements were performed pre- and postoperatively , and a questionnaire to evaluate urinary problems experienced postoperatively was mailed to all patients . twenty responses were received and followed up by a telephone interview with the urologist . the number and kind of problems suggest that the cause of urinary dysfunction commonly reported after radical hysterectomy is disruption of nerve supplies to both bladder and urethra . data on retention suggest that the characteristics of this dysfunction change with time but generally are stabilized by the end of the first postoperative year . it is noted that recurrent urinary tract infection may occur asymptomatically because of loss of bladder sensation . because of the diversity of presentation , urodynamics played an important role in individualization of treatment and monitoring of progress . 
influence of treatment with diethylstilbestrol for carcinoma of prostate on platelet aggregation and plasma lipoproteins . treatment of prostatic carcinoma with estrogens is accompanied by an increased risk for thromboembolic and cardiovascular complications . the underlying mechanisms are still unknown . patients treated with diethylstilbestrol ( des ) were compared with patients given no estrogen treatment regarding factors ( platelet aggregation in vitro and plasma lipoproteins ) that have been suggested to contribute to increased thrombogenesis and cardiovascular risk . the results do not show any increase in in vitro platelet aggregation in patients treated with des compared with those given no treatment . this indicates that hyperaggregability does not contribute to the increased incidence in thromboembolic events seen in des-treated patients . this is in contrast to the increased platelet aggregation previously described in patients treated with polyestradiolphosphate + etinylestradiol . the changes in plasma lipoproteins observed during des-treatment are generally considered beneficial from an atherogenic point of view and do not appear to cause the elevated incidence of cardiovascular disease in these patients . 
evaluation of prostate-specific antigen and prostatic acid phosphatase as prostate cancer markers . prostate-specific antigen ( psa ) and prostatic acid phosphatase ( pap ) have been evaluated in patients with prostate cancer , benign prostatic hypertrophy ( bph ) , and prostatitis . psa has proved to be diagnostically more sensitive than pap for the detection of prostate cancer : 95.0 per cent vs 60.0 per cent for 40 newly diagnosed cancer cases , and 97.1 per cent vs 65.7 per cent for 35 relapsed cases . this also holds true for those patients with early-stage disease : 71.4 per cent vs 0 per cent for 7 stage a1 cases . the specificities of psa and pap are comparable , 96.8 per cent vs 98.9 per cent , respectively . psa is also more sensitive for monitoring therapy , since it usually rises before pap and always precedes clinical signs of relapse . although psa may be elevated more frequently than pap in some patients with bph and prostatitis , it is postulated that these patients with elevated serum psa and normal serum pap may fall into a high-risk sub-population which may have early prostate cancer or precancerous conditions not easily detectable by current clinical and diagnostic techniques . our data suggest psa is a sensitive useful tumor marker for the diagnosis and management of prostate cancer . in addition , pap , in combination with psa , may serve as a useful adjunct for differential diagnosis and confirmation of advanced stage prostate cancer . 
ams malleable penile prosthesis . the american medical systems ( ams ) malleable penile prosthesis was implanted in 57 patients from january , 1983 to 1985. fifty-one per cent of the procedures were performed under local anesthesia , and 28 per cent in ambulatory ( day ) surgery . the prosthesis was evaluated in terms of cosmetic result , patient satisfaction and function , and postoperative complications . ninety-one per cent of patients were satisfied with their decision to select the malleable prosthesis , and 66 per cent reported no difficulty with concealment . a comparison is made with data available from the alternative jonas malleable prosthesis . 
urologic aspects associated with isolated hypogastric artery aneurysm . the isolated hypogastric artery aneurysm may give rise to urologic symptoms . this occurs as a consequence of extrinsic compression exerted by the aneurysm itself to the urinary tract or the involvement of the urinary tract by the perianeurysmatic fibrosis . we report 2 cases of isolated hypogastric artery aneurysm . one of the patients had unilateral ureteral obstruction while the other revealed a mass on rectal examination . in both cases surgery was performed and the urologic manifestations were relieved completely . 
mentor inflatable penile prosthesis : a reliable mechanical device . forty-six patients have undergone implantation of a penile prosthesis using the mentor inflatable device . all patients are at least six months postimplantation , with the average follow-up being twenty-one months . six patients have required reoperation due to technical problems , but there have been no mechanical failures . this low mechanical failure rate greatly enhances the attractiveness of this type of penile prosthesis when comparing it with the semirigid devices . 
total replacement of bladder and urethra by cecum and appendix in bladder exstrophy . the first case of total bladder and urethral replacement by cecoappendiceal unit was achieved in a five-year-old boy born with bladder exstrophy . residual vesical and prostatic tissue was utilized to provide continence successfully . 
rhodamine-123 as effective agent in rat prostate tumor r3327-h . preliminary report . rhodamine-123 is a fluorescent dye that preferentially stains mitochondria and causes damage to mitochondria of malignant cells . the effect of this mitochondriacide on the transplantable rat prostate tumor r3327-h was determined in this study . rhodamine was administered subcutaneously every other day at a dosage of 15 mg / kg body weight for fifty-two days . there was significant alteration of the acinar cells with disruption of the cells from the basement membrane , as well as vacuolization and change in fibroblast shape and density . rhodamine-123 may have a role in the treatment of prostatic cancer . 
hyperglycemia associated with renal cell carcinoma . a case of renal cell carcinoma presenting with uncontrolled diabetes mellitus is reported . after a radical nephrectomy , the diabetic state completely resolved . laboratory studies failed to reveal any endocrinopathy responsible for the diabetic state . thus it appears that hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus can now be included with the other paraneoplastic endocrinopathies associated with renal cell carcinoma . 
unsuspected intraperitoneal rupture of bladder presenting with abdominal free air . we present a case of intraperitoneal rupture of the bladder discovered during exploratory laparotomy for abdominal free air associated with an indwelling foley catheter found in the peritoneal cavity . this report emphasizes the need for systematic and thorough evaluation of the genitourinary tract in the patient with multiple trauma . 
dacron " sock " repair for proximal corporeal perforation . 
simple method for chain cystography . 
retroperitoneal schwannoma . a case of retroperitoneal benign schwannoma is presented ; in addition , 133 cases of retroperitoneal schwannoma reported in japanese literature are studied . in our series 66 per cent of the cases were found to be cystic . therefore , the cystic change may be one of the preoperative features of schwannomas , because other types of retroperitoneal tumor do not frequently form cysts . furthermore , the necessity of postoperative electron microscopy for accurate histologic diagnosis is discussed . 
case pro replaced-url emphysematous pyelonephritis . 
spongious bone density determination for staging and follow-up of patients with prostatic cancer . quantitative computerized tomography ( qct ) of vertebral bodies could reveal metastatic spread of prostatic cancer before such lesions are seen with standard examinations . focal increase in the density of the spongious bone in face of normal bone scan and serum acid phosphatase is suggestive of metastasis , but certitude is gained only if further increase in density or structural bone changes are demonstrated on follow-up studies . qct also may provide an objective measurement of tumor response to therapy . 
exercise tests and ventricular tachycardia . 
plague masquerading as gastrointestinal illness . 
features of potentially reversible dementia in elderly outpatients . 
prevention of renoprival nephropathy [ clinical conference ] 
new roles for activated charcoal [ editorial ] 
mebendazole and ascaris migration . 
hot flashes in men with testicular insufficiency . 
pulmonary dirofilariasis in humans--pneumonitis that evolved to a lung nodule . 
chemical denervation for hemifacial spasm [ letter ] 
recommendations for a change in certificates of death [ letter ] 
manipulative therapy for low back pain [ letter ] 
treatment of mushroom amanitin poisoning [ letter ] 
applying information technology to clinical medicine [ letter ] 
treatments for restless legs syndrome [ letter ] 
chronic disease in a general adult population . findings from the rand health insurance experiment . 
a survey of hospital privileges for california family physicians . 
need kidneys fail ? [ editorial ] 
use of the peak flow meter in office practice . the peak expiratory flow rate ( pefr ) may be measured in the office or at home with an inexpensive , hand-held meter . measurement of the pefr provides a rapid , objective means of diagnosing and monitoring asthma . use of the peak flow meter permits early detection of deteriorating function , allowing timely institution of additional therapeutic measures and preventing the need for hospital admission . during an acute attack of asthma , the pefr aids in determining whether admission is necessary . 
melorheostosis . 
geriatric drug therapy . 
l-carnitine : its therapeutic potential [ published erratum appears in am fam physician 1987 aug ; 36 ( 2 ) : 52 ] 
immunoaugmentative therapy . 
prevention vs . redemption [ editorial ] 
more notes on si [ editorial ] 
the marfan syndrome . although the prognosis for a person with the marfan syndrome is much more favorable than it was a decade ago , this remains a serious and burdensome condition . early diagnosis is essential and is based on characteristic abnormalities of the musculoskeletal , ocular and cardiovascular systems and a positive family history for the syndrome . management focuses on recognizing abnormalities and altering the natural history of each clinical manifestation at as young an age as possible . the family physician must be current with therapy and counseling . 
abnormal pap smear : colposcopy and cryosurgery [ published erratum appears in am fam physician 1987 feb ; 35 ( 2 ) : 211 ] colposcopic evaluation of patients with abnormal papanicolaou smears permits the physician to visualize cervical lesions and determine the extent of intraepithelial neoplasia . through the use of colposcopy with cryotherapy , many patients with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia may avoid a more invasive form of treatment . family physicians should become familiar with colposcopic technique so that they can select patients who are suitable for local treatment with cryotherapy . 
amiodarone : correlation of early and late electrophysiologic studies with outcome . twenty-nine patients with recurrent sustained ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) or cardiac arrest underwent baseline , early ( after 2 weeks of therapy ) and late ( after 5 months , mean ) electrophysiologic studies during oral amiodarone therapy . inducible sustained vt was present in all patients at baseline study , in 21 of 22 at early and in 26 of 29 at late study . the cycle length of induced vt increased from 263 + / - 60 msec at baseline study to 305 + / - 58 msec at early follow-up study and to 318 + / - 64 msec at late study ( p less than .05 = baseline vs late study ) . the ventricular effective refractory period increased from 237 + / - 22 msec at the baseline study to 253 + / - 26 msec at early and to 268 + / - 24 msec at late study ( p less than 0.05 baseline vs early , baseline vs late and early vs late study ) . twenty-four patients had no recurrent vt or cardiac arrest on amiodarone ( group 1 ) . five patients had recurrent arrhythmia ( group 2 ) . in group 1 , the ventricular effective refractory period increased by 39 + / - 19 msec , but in group 2 decreased by 4 + / - 27 from baseline to late follow-up study ( p less than 0.05 ) . similarly , in group 1 the cycle length of induced vt increased by a mean of 75 + / - 56 msec but decreased in group 2 by a mean of 11 + / - 81 msec from baseline to late follow-up study ( p less than 0.05 ) . from the above findings we conclude : chronic electrophysiologic effects of amiodarone are not completely manifest after 2 weeks of oral therapy . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
susceptibility to atrial fibrillation and ventricular tachyarrhythmia in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome : role of the accessory pathway . clinical and electrophysiologic characteristics associated with spontaneous and inducible atrial fibrillation and ventricular tachyarrhythmia were assessed in 20 consecutive patients with wolff-parkinson-white ( wpw ) syndrome undergoing surgical division ( n = 12 ) or transcatheter electrical ablation ( n = 8 ) of accessory pathways . patients with spontaneous atrial fibrillation were characterized by the trend ( not significant ) of a shorter antegrade accessory pathway effective refractory period ( 256 + / - 26 vs 303 + / - 109 msec ) . however , patients with and without spontaneous atrial fibrillation did not differ with respect to prevalence of structural heart disease ( 3 of 11 vs 2 of 9 ) , intra-atrial conduction time ( 34 + / - 10 vs 32 + / - 10 msec ) , or interatrial conduction time ( 86 + / - 21 vs 88 + / - 17 msec ) . thus , atrial and accessory pathway electrophysiologic properties ( per se ) were not clear determinants of susceptibility to atrial fibrillation . among the 20 patients , 10 to 35 beats of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia ( seven patients ) or ventricular fibrillation ( three patients ) were induced at electrophysiologic study with one to three programmed extrastimuli . clinically , a ventricular arrhythmia ( ventricular fibrillation during atrial fibrillation ) had occurred in only one of these patients . the discordance of these observations was significant ( p less than 0.01 ) . patients with and without inducible ventricular arrhythmias were not distinguished by clinical factors or by electrophysiologic properties of the accessory pathway or ventricles . accessory pathway conduction was completely or partially eliminated by ablation procedures in 14 of 20 patients . during a mean follow-up of 27 months , atrial fibrillation recurred in two patients with failed ablation procedures and in one patient with left atrial enlargement ( despite accessory pathway division ) ( p = 0.019 vs pre-ablation ) . ventricular arrhythmias remained inducible in two patients in whom accessory pathway ablation failed ( p = 0.01 vs initial study ) . however , spontaneous ventricular tachyarrhythmias did not occur during follow-up . we conclude that susceptibility to spontaneous or inducible atrial fibrillation and ventricular tachyarrhythmia in patients with wpw syndrome and no organic heart disease depends primarily on the existence of a functional accessory pathway . these susceptibilities are eliminated by interruption of accessory pathway conduction . ventricular tachyarrhythmias remain infrequent spontaneous events in the wpw syndrome . their more frequent induction at electrophysiologic study is not predictive of clinical occurrence . 
comparison of intravenous mexiletine and lidocaine for the treatment of ventricular arrhythmias . the efficacy and safety of intravenous loading of mexiletine was compared to lidocaine in patients with ventricular premature depolarizations ( vpds ) . seventeen men and five women , average age 63 years , completed this randomized parallel study . twelve patients received mexiletine intravenously at ( 5 to 10 mg / min ) until greater than or equal to 95 % vpd suppression was achieved or a total of 450 mg of drug was given . the average loading dose of mexiletine was 4.4 mg / kg , at an infusion rate of 0.1 mg / kg / min . ten patients received lidocaine ( 1 mg / kg ) given over 3 minutes , with a second similar bolus given if after 10 minutes greater than or equal to 95 % vpd suppression was not achieved . total vpds were determined for the 60 minutes before drug administration , during drug infusion , and 60 minutes thereafter . eleven of 12 ( 92 % ) patients receiving mexiletine were full responders ( greater than or equal to 95 % suppression ) and one was a partial responder ( greater than or equal to 75 % greater than or equal to 95 % suppression ) . five of 10 lidocaine patients ( 50 % ) were full responders , three ( 30 % ) were partial responders , and two failed to respond . at peak suppression , mexiletine reduced mean vpd from 37 + / - 33 / 5 minutes ( mean + / - s.d. ) to 0.8 + / - 0.9 / 5 minutes ( p less than 0.01 ) and lidocaine decreased mean vpds from 28 + / - 47 / 5 minutes to 4.7 + / - 2.2 / 5 minutes ( p less than 0.01 ) . mexiletine resulted in greater suppression of vpds than lidocaine in terms of mean percent reduction ( 96 % vs 68 % , p less than 0.01 ) . all lidocaine patients had therapeutic plasma levels ( range 1.6 to 3.5 micrograms / ml ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
the impact of transtelephonic documentation of arrhythmia on morbidity and mortality rate in sudden death survivors . a post hospital follow-up system based on predetermined antiarrhythmic strategies and telephone transmitters used to record ecgs was helpful in managing post hospital course and improved survival in patients with a history of out-of-hospital sudden death . all patients underwent therapy guided by serial electrophysiologic testing . of the 47 patients , 19 used the telephone transmitter system and 28 did not . during follow-up , residual symptomatic and silent ventricular arrhythmia was documented in 78 % of patients using telephone transmitters . ventricular tachycardia was transmitted in six patients--all survived . during an average 15-month follow-up , 1 of 19 patients using the telephone transmitter system died vs 12 deaths among the 28 patients who did not use the system ( p less than 0.005 ) . these results were independent of ejection fraction , presence of congestive heart failure , amiodarone therapy , and the outcome on electrophysiologic therapy . thus , patients with a history of out-of-hospital sudden death , discharged following electrophysiologic guided therapy , require repeated antiarrhythmic dose titration for side effects or residual ventricular arrhythmia . prompt diagnosis and treatment of potentially fatal arrhythmia is crucial and feasible , especially with regular ecg checks through telephone transmission . 
enhanced survival in patients with heart failure and life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias . previous reports have suggested that patients with heart failure and coexistent ventricular tachyarrhythmias have a 1-year mortality of 40 % to 60 % . to assess whether an antiarrhythmic management program could reduce mortality , we studied 20 consecutive patients with ventricular fibrillation ( 12 ) or ventricular tachycardia ( eight ) and heart failure . coronary disease was the most common underlying cardiac disorder ( 85 % ) . heart failure was managed with digoxin ( 16 ) , diuretics ( 16 ) , and vasodilators ( seven ) . all patients received antiarrhythmic drug therapy guided by both noninvasive and invasive studies . this included single ( 10 ) or combination drug therapy ( 10 ) . beta blockers were used alone or in combination for arrhythmia control in 11 patients . one-year survival was 89 % . we conclude that an effective program can be developed for patients with life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias and heart failure . combination antiarrhythmic drug therapy is often required . despite impaired left ventricular function , beta-blocking drugs can be used , and may be important . 
the efficacy of cibenzoline and propafenone against inducible sustained and nonsustained ventricular tachycardias in conscious dogs with isolated chronic right ventricular infarction : a comparative study with procainamide . the efficacy of intravenous cibenzoline ( 3 mg / kg ) , propafenone ( 4 mg / kg ) , and procainamide ( 20 mg / kg ) against inducible sustained and nonsustained ventricular tachycardias ( vt ) was evaluated in 12 conscious dogs with chronic isolated right ventricular ( rv ) infarction . rv infarct was caused by permanent occlusion of the right coronary artery in the closed-chest dog by intracoronary balloon inflation . three to 10 days following the occlusion period , programmed electrical stimulation reproducibly induced sustained and / or nonsustained vt , allowing evaluation of antiarrhythmic drug efficacy . propafenone was effective in preventing the induction of sustained vt in only one out of six dogs tested , but caused a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) slowing of vt rate ( 269 + / - 13 to 230 + / - 10 bpm ) . procainamide had effects similar to those seen with propafenone . propafenone and procainamide were ineffective against nonsustained vt , and on established sustained vt once induced . cibenzoline was effective in preventing the induction of sustained vt in two out of seven dogs , an effect which was not significantly different from either propafenone or procainamide . however , cibenzoline was significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) more effective than either procainamide or propafenone in terminating an established induced sustained vt ( four out of six dogs ) . furthermore , cibenzoline converted nonsustained to sustained vt in four out of seven dogs tested . histopathologic studies have shown infarction of the basal two thirds of the rv ( 38.5 + / - 7.8 % of the rv ) with no left ventricular involvement . it is concluded that the isolated rv infarction model is highly suitable for serial drug testing against inducible vt in conscious dogs , and this model of vt appears to be fairly resistant to standard and newer antiarrhythmic drug therapy . 
clinical and electrocardiographic features and long-term results of electrical therapy in patients with isolated his bundle disease . the clinical , ecg , and electrophysiologic findings of 35 consecutive patients with second- and third-degree intra-his block with normal qrs complexes were examined . the follow-up period varied between 12 and 120 months ( mean 45 ) . seventy-seven per cent of the patients were women . underlying heart disease was present in 43 % of the patients . ecgs were characterized by both second-degree type i and type ii atrioventricular block , normal or slightly prolonged pr interval of the conducted beats or of the first conducted beat of a wenckebach sequence , and by subtle changes in the initial forces of the qrs complexes of the escape beats . electrophysiologic study showed normal sinus and atrioventricular node function and normal infra-his conduction in all patients . in four patients repetitive bradycardia-dependent intra-his block was induced . thirty-two patients were permanently paced soon after the initial evaluation and three during the follow-up period . total long-term mortality rate was 23 % . none of the patients developed bundle branch block . 
effect of fluosol-da on infarct morphology and vulnerability to ventricular arrhythmia . although the blood substitute perfluorochemical fluosol-da has been shown to reduce experimental myocardial infarct size , the electrophysiologic properties of the surviving myocardium have not been assessed . twenty-six dogs underwent closed-chest occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending coronary artery . prior to infarction animals were randomly assigned to one of three treatment groups : groups receiving blood exchange with either fluosol-da ( f = 9 ) or autologous heparinized blood ( h = 8 ) , given 30 minutes following occlusion over the next 30 minutes ( these animals were ventilated with 100 % oxygen for 6 hours ) , or a control group ( c = 9 ) receiving no exchange transfusion and ventilated with room air . on the third postmyocardial infarction day the animals underwent programmed stimulation . the area at risk was defined by injecting different colored microvascular dyes into the three coronary beds , and the area of necrosis was defined by sectioning ventricular slices and staining with mallory 's trichrome stain . infarct size was significantly reduced in the fluosol-da-treated group as compared to the heparin-treated and control groups when expressed as a percentage of the area at risk ( f = 53.3 + / - 10 , h = 67.2 + / - 12.8 , c = 73.6 + / - 11.4 : f vs h p less than 0.05 ; f vs c p less than 0.01 ) . ventricular tachycardia was inducible and sustained in 16 animals ( 3f , 6h , and 7c ) , and there was morphologic correlation with greater endocardial necrosis and smaller viable epicardial regions . in the 10 animals ( 6f , 2h , and 2c ) without sustained ventricular tachycardia , there was greater epicardial viability and sparing of the endocardial regions with irregularity of the borders between viable and necrotic myocardium . we conclude that fluosol-da not only decreases infarct size but also modifies infarct morphology to reduce electrical instability . 
clinical course and risk stratification of myocardial infarct survivors with three-vessel disease . prevalence of three-vessel disease was prospectively analyzed in a series of 462 consecutive infarct survivors aged 60 years or less . eighty-seven percent ( 403 ) of the patients were catheterized within one month of the acute event , and were followed for a mean of 43 months ( range 21 to 69 ) . three-vessel disease was present in 96 cases ( 24 % ) and these patients form the study population . the primary goals of this study were to determine the prevalence of three-vessel disease and to identify predictors of survival and new coronary events among this subset of infarct survivors . during follow-up , 15 patients died , 17 had a recurrent nonfatal infarction , and 54 developed angina ( 4-year probability of each cardiac event being 0.20 , 0.22 , and 0.59 , respectively ) . cox 's stepwise multivariate analysis identified the ejection fraction ( ef ) as the only predictor of survival ( p less than 0.001 ) . no predictors for nonfatal ischemic events were found among the independent variables considered . patients were stratified in risk categories according to the ef . four-year probability of survival was 1.0 in participants with ef = greater than 50 % ( n = 23 ) , 0.77 for those with ef = 21 % to 49 % ( n = 66 ) , and 0.22 in patients with more severe left ventricular dysfunction , ef = less than 20 % ( n = 7 ) . probability of occurrence of nonfatal reinfarction or angina was similar in the three risk categories . thus , our results indicate that a normal ejection fraction is found in 25 % of infarct survivors with three-vessel disease , and that this subset of patients has a low incidence of early and intermediate range coronary events . 
anterior st segment depression in acute inferior myocardial infarction as a marker of greater inferior , apical , and posterolateral damage . the clinical significance of anterior precordial st segment depression during acute inferior myocardial infarction was evaluated in 67 consecutive patients early after onset of symptoms with gated blood pool scans , thallium-201 perfusion images , and 12-lead ecgs . patients with anterior st depression ( n = 33 ) had depressed mean values for left ventricular ejection fraction ( 54 + / - 2 % [ mean + / - s.e.m. ] vs 59 + / - 2 % ; p = 0.02 ) , cardiac index ( 3.1 + / - 0.2 vs 3.6 + / - 0.2 l / m2 ; p = 0.03 ) , and ratio of systolic blood pressure to end-systolic volume ( 2.0 + / - 0.1 vs 2.5 + / - 0.3 mm hg / ml ; p = 0.04 ) compared to patients with no anterior st depression ( n = 34 ) . patients with anterior st depression had ( 1 ) lower mean wall motion values for the inferior , apical , and inferior posterolateral segments ( p less than 0.05 ) and ( 2 ) greater reductions in thallium-201 uptake in the inferior and posterolateral regions ( p less than 0.05 ) . however , anterior and septal ( 1 ) wall motion and ( 2 ) thallium-201 uptake were similar in patients with and without st depression . thus , anterior precordial st segment depression in patients with acute inferior wall myocardial infarction represents more than a reciprocal electrical phenomenon . it identifies patients with more severe wall motion impairment and greater hypoperfusion of the inferior and adjacent segments . the poorer global left ventricular function in these patients is a result of more extensive inferior infarction and not of remote septal or anterior injury . 
the significance of underlying coronary stenosis for recovery of myocardial function after transient ischemia in the dog . the rate of recovery of myocardial function after transient coronary occlusion ( co ) has been considered to depend on the duration and frequency of co . however , underlying coronary stenosis has not been previously demonstrated to be a determinant of the rate of myocardial functional recovery . thus , 12 open-chest dogs were studied to examine the influence of critical coronary stenosis ( ccs ) on functional recovery after transient co . regional functional recovery following 2-minute co was examined under two different conditions in eight dogs : patent coronary artery stenosis and fixed css that exhausted coronary reserve but did not cause a deficit in resting coronary flow or regional function . following reperfusion with the coronary artery patent , regional function in the ischemic zone was fully recovered ( 100 + / - 18.0 % of pre-co value ) at 30 seconds and was significantly increased ( postischemic hypercontraction ) compared to pre-co value at 1 and at 2 minutes after reperfusion . following co and reperfusion in the setting of ccs , regional functional recovery was delayed and regional function remained depressed until 2 minutes after reperfusion . no cumulative effect on functional recovery following repeated 2-minute co was demonstrated in a control group of four dogs . we conclude that coronary artery patency is a determinant of the rate of myocardial function recovery after a transient ischemic episode , and postischemic hypercontractility was suppressed by the underlying ccs . 
effect of diltiazem on coronary reactive hyperemia in patients with flow-limiting coronary artery stenosis . the acute effects of diltiazem on coronary reactive hyperemia were studied in 12 patients with flow-limiting coronary stenosis . reactive hyperemia was elicited by injection of 8 ml contrast medium into the left coronary artery , while coronary sinus blood flow and left ventricular and aortic pressures were continuously recorded . relative magnitude of hyperemia was estimated by the ratio of coronary flow at peak hyperemia to baseline flow ( hyperemic ratio ) . coronary resistance was calculated as the ratio between mean aortic pressure minus left ventricular mean diastolic pressure and coronary sinus blood flow . the 12 patients studied had flow-limiting coronary stenosis since their hyperemic ratio was significantly restrained when compared to that of seven control subjects ( 1.45 + / - 0.17 vs 2.02 + / - 0.24 , respectively ; p less than 0.001 ) . the intravenous infusion of diltiazem ( 0.30 mg x kg-1 ) reduced heart rate , mean aortic pressure , and myocardial oxygen consumption ( all p less than 0.001 ) . after diltiazem the hyperemic ratio was blunted when compared to the basal state ( 1.36 + / - 0.15 vs 1.45 + / - 0.17 , respectively ; p less than 0.05 ) , and hyperemia volume was reduced ( -33 % ; p less than 0.001 ) . the decrease in coronary resistance at peak hyperemia was also reduced from -30 + / - 8 % to -25 + / - 8 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that diltiazem blunts coronary reactive hyperemia in patients with demonstrated flow-limiting coronary stenosis . this reduction of coronary flow response to a hyperemic stimulus could favorably influence blood flow distribution in patients with significant coronary stenosis . 
effects of reperfusion on myocardial wall thickness , oxidative phosphorylation , and ca2+ metabolism following total and partial myocardial ischemia . coronary artery reperfusion following acute myocardial ischemia may salvage ischemic jeopardized cells . we studied the effects of early brief reperfusion on totally ischemic and on partially ischemic myocardium of open-chest pigs . in 10 animals , coronary flow was reduced to 0 % for 30 minutes and was followed by 10 minutes reperfusion ( group a ) . in another 10 animals , coronary flow was reduced to 25 % of the baseline value for 30 minutes followed by 10 minutes of reperfusion ( group b ) . in another eight animals coronary flow was reduced to 25 % of the baseline value for 60 minutes and followed by 10 minutes of reperfusion ( group c ) . results showed that a brief 10-minute period of reperfusion of ischemic myocardium after total occlusion caused abnormal diastolic wall thickening with only partial return of systolic wall thickening . however , reperfusion of ischemic myocardium after partial occlusion , whether 30 or 60 minutes , caused little diastolic wall thickening and a partial return of systolic thickening . a marked elevation of myocardial ca2+ , a decrease in mitochondrial adenosine triphosphate ( atp ) production and cellular atp concentration , and a reduction in the rate of ca2+ uptake by sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles occurred in the totally ischemic myocardium but not in the partially ischemic myocardium . these results demonstrate that reperfusion of ischemic myocardium after 1 hour of coronary flow reduction to 25 % of baseline is less damaging than reperfusion after a 30-minute total coronary occlusion , and suggest that preexisting states affecting coronary flow need to be evaluated in assessing the outcome of reperfusion . 
left ventricular dimensions and mechanics in distance runners . we assessed heart size and mechanics at rest in highly trained distance runners . by means of two-dimensional echocardiography , we compared 62 runners ( greater than 40 miles / week ) and 84 nonrunners . left ventricular end-diastolic volume index and mass index were larger in runners than in nonrunners ( p less than 0.001 ) and in men than in women ( p less than 0.001 ) . however , left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic volume / mass ratios were similar for runners and nonrunners . noninvasive estimates of end-systolic and peak-systolic meridional and circumferential wall stresses were lower in runners than in nonrunners ( p less than 0.001 ) . lower wall stress resulted from lower myocardial area / cavity area ratios , and thus ' average ' radius / thickness ratios ( measured from the parasternal short-axis view ) , in runners than in nonrunners ( p less than 0.001 ) . we detected a subtle change in ventricular shape among the distance runners . basilar hypertrophy accounted for increased myocardial thickness with normal cavity size in the parasternal short-axis view , as might be expected in hearts working under sustained pressure elevations during prolonged training periods . however , cavity length and therefore ventricular volume were increased in the apical views , leading to a normal overall volume / mass ratio . these hearts have thus adjusted to periods of volume , as well as to pressure overload . race performance is determined by a complex interaction between the heart , vascular , and skeletal muscle systems . in this study no parameter of myocardial size or function predicted 10 km or marathon race times , just as no physical characteristic or training record predicted left ventricular mass , end-diastolic or end-systolic volume . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
relative tachycardia in ambulant children with borderline hypertension . borderline hypertensives who demonstrate tachycardia have a tendency toward the development of essential hypertension . however , the documentation of tachycardia in previous studies has been generally based on brief periods of observation . in the present study , we measured heart rates through a 24-hour period in 16 ambulatory mildly hypertensive subjects ( ages 5 to 23 years ) . when compared with normal matched controls , significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) higher heart rates were observed during the waking periods ( 99 + / - 9 vs 90 + / - 11 ) and sleep periods ( 72 + / - 12 vs 62 + / - 7 ) . similar observations were also made for 24 hours ( 90 + / - 8 vs 79 + / - 8 ) . in addition , hypertensives also demonstrated thickened ( during diastole ) left ventricular posterior wall ( 0.96 + / - 0.17 vs 0.85 + / - 0.13 cm ; p less than 0.05 ) and interventricular septum ( 0.98 + / - 0.17 vs 0.84 + / - 0.19 cm ; p less than 0.05 ) . it is suggested that tachycardia may be an early manifestation of borderline hypertension in children . 
ventricular pump performance in patients with obstructed right ventricular-pulmonary artery conduits . postoperative data were obtained from 18 patients with partially obstructed right ventricular ( rv ) to pulmonary artery ( pa ) conduits , who were studied 1 to 9 years following a rastelli operation . age at operation was 1 to 8 months in seven patients ( group i : infant group ) and 2 to 9 years in the remaining 11 patients ( group ii : childhood group ) . the diagnosis was pulmonary atresia in eight patients , truncus arteriosus in seven , and transposition of the great arteries with ventricular septal defect and pulmonary stenosis in three . porcine-valved conduits were inserted in 17 patients and an aortic homograft in one . all but seven patients were free of symptoms at the time of postoperative study . neither peak rv pressures nor rv to pa gradients were different between groups . rv ejection fraction ( ef ) was decreased in group ii ( 0.43 + / - 0.11 ) but was normal ( 0.60 + / - 0.10 ) in group i . in addition , there was a significant inverse relationship between rvef and age at repair ( r = 0.714 ; p less than 0.005 ) . rv end-diastolic volume ( edv ) was normal or increased in all patients and did not differ between the two groups . left ventricular ( lv ) ejection fraction was also decreased in the older group ( 0.56 + / - 0.10 vs 0.68 + / - 0.08 ; p less than 0.05 ) , and there was a decrease in rvef and / or lvef from pre- to postoperative studies in one of six group i patients compared with four of five group ii patients . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
beneficial effect of taurine in rabbits with chronic congestive heart failure . to examine the effect of daily treatment with taurine on improving the status of congestive heart failure ( chf ) , we used rabbits with artificially induced aortic regurgitation . ten rabbits were treated daily with taurine ( 100 mg / kg by mouth ) and eight with guanidinoethyl sulfonate ( ges ) ( 100 mg / kg by mouth ) immediately after induction of aortic regurgitation . the cumulative mortality rate at 8 weeks in the taurine-treated chf group was 10 % ( 1 of 10 ) compared with 53 % ( 16 of 30 ) in the nontreated chf group and 75 % ( 6 of 8 ) in the ges-treated chf group ( p less than 0.05 ) . although cardiac function ( max dp / dt ) in chf rabbits was significantly decreased ( p less than 0.001 ) , taurine-treated chf rabbits maintained the same values as control rabbits . taurine content of the left ventricular tissue of the chf rabbits was significantly increased ( p less than 0.01 ) . administration of taurine and ges to control rabbits for 8 weeks affected neither the hemodynamics nor the taurine content of the heart . it was concluded that taurine slowed the rapid progression of heart failure and consequently prolonged life expectancy . 
echocardiographic findings in patients with proved pulmonary embolism . echocardiographic studies were performed in 105 patients with acute and recurrent pulmonary emboli . pulmonary embolism was confirmed by pulmonary angiography ( n = 48 ) , autopsy ( n = 6 ) , and lung perfusion scintigraphy ( n = 51 ) . seventy of 93 patients ( 75 % ) displayed a dilated right ventricle , 38 of 91 patients ( 42 % ) had reduced left ventricular cavity dimension , 41 of 82 patients ( 50 % ) had a decreased ef slope of the mitral valve , and 78 of 101 patients ( 77 % ) showed dilatation of the right pulmonary artery . the motion of the interventricular septum was abnormal in 41 of 93 patients ( 44 % ) . right-sided thrombi were seen in 13 patients within the right pulmonary artery ( n = 11 ) and in the right ventricle ( n = 3 ) ; in one patient they were found in the superior vena cava , in the innominate vein , and the right atrium . two patients suffered from right-sided endocarditis . thus echocardiographic changes were frequently found in patients with proved pulmonary emboli . the echocardiographic findings of right-sided cardiac and pulmonary artery abnormalities indicate hemodynamically active pulmonary emboli . 
prognostic significance of vegetations detected by two-dimensional echocardiography in infective endocarditis . although 2de is considered the most sensitive method for detecting vegetations in infective endocarditis , the independent clinical significance of these vegetations continues to be debated . to further examine this , we identified 74 patients who were diagnosed as having infective endocarditis over a 54-month period . the 50 patients who underwent 2de examination form the basis of this report . definite vegetations were present in 21 ( 42 % ) patients and measured 1.2 + / - 0.2 cm2 . the vegetation was localized to the aortic valve in 10 patients , the mitral valve in eight , and the tricuspid valve in three . a major complication , defined as death , new-onset congestive heart failure , major arterial embolus , or valve surgery occurred in 86 % of the vegetative endocarditis patients compared to 62 % of those without vegetations . among those patients with vegetations , death occurred in 24 % , heart failure in 38 % , arterial embolus in 48 % , and surgery in 43 % . this compared to 7 % , 21 % , 21 % , and 24 % , respectively , in those patients without vegetations . these data support the concept that 2de detection of a vegetation defines a high-risk subgroup of patients with infective endocarditis in whom careful monitoring and aggressive management are warranted . 
electrocardiographic markers of cardiac metastasis . cardiac metastases are often clinically inapparent but have important prognostic significance . a total of 1046 consecutive autopsies performed between 1981 and 1983 were reviewed , and 210 patients with both premortem and autopsy diagnoses of cancer were found , in whom a recent ( less than 3 months before death ) ecg was available . of these patients , 47 had cardiac metastases ( group i ) and 163 did not ( group ii ) . in group i , 19 patients had new ecg changes suggestive of myocardial ischemia or injury , including either diffuse t wave inversion ( 10 % ) , segmental ( ecg pattern suggestive of a specific coronary distribution ) t wave inversion ( 80 % ) , or st elevation ( 10 % ) . none of these patients had symptoms suggestive of myocardial ischemia . in group ii , six patients had ecg changes suggestive of myocardial ischemia or injury : four patients with preterminal sepsis , one with myocardial infarction , and one with aspergillus nodules within the myocardium . new atrial arrhythmias ( seven patients ) and low voltage ( 10 patients ) were found with greater frequency in group i patients ( p less than 0.0005 and p less than 0.00001 , respectively , vs group ii ) . patients with normal ecgs were unlikely to have cardiac metastases ; however , the finding of nonspecific st-t wave changes was not helpful in differentiating the two groups . in clinically stable patients with cancer and no cardiac symptoms suggestive of ischemia , any new ecg change should raise the suspicion of cardiac metastases . the ecg finding of myocardial ischemia or injury has high specificity ( 96 % , p less than 0.000001 ) for cardiac metastases . 
functional translation of exercise responses from graded exercise testing to exercise training . this study attempts to develop a quantitative approach to the prescription of absolute exercise intensity during level ground ambulation ( min / mile ) or cycle ergometry ( kpm ) from responses observed during gxt . a total of 345 subjects performed gxt and exercise training sessions with either the bruce treadmill protocol and level ground ambulation ( n = 154 ) or cycle ergometry ( n = 191 ) . responses from 90 % of each group were used to generate equations for predicting training pace ( or power output ) from the time ( or power output ) during the gxt when target hr was achieved . fai was also included in the prediction of training pace ( or power output ) . the remaining 10 % of subjects in each group were used to cross-validate the prediction equations . the correlation between the time ( or power output ) during gxt when the training hr was observed and the pace of ambulation ( or power output ) was 0.70 for treadmill walking and 0.88 for cycle-cycle . correlations were increased by the addition of fai to the prediction equation . the results of this investigation suggest that the absolute intensity of exercise for training can be predicted accurately from gxt results . 
paradox of acute myocardial ischemia and successful ptca : a case report of subtle coronary embolus . 
isolated and severe left main coronary atherosclerosis and thrombosis : a complication of acute angle takeoff of the left main coronary artery . 
long-term exercise and hemodynamic follow-up in patients with previous right ventricular myocardial infarction . 
unusual cardiac involvement in carcinoid syndrome . 
acute rupture of the left anterior descending coronary artery secondary to percutaneous transluminal angioplasty . 
congenital aortic elongation : a rare cause of superior mediastinal widening . 
carcinoma of the heart presenting as myocardial infarction . 
q fever endocarditis presenting as myocardial infarction . 
primary right ventricular leiomyosarcoma producing outflow tract obstruction . 
potential efficacy of calcium antagonists and heparin in patients with embolic stroke . 
triggered activity as a possible mechanism of ventricular tachycardia in mitral valve prolapse . 
ra tamponade simulating tricuspid stenosis post-ami [ letter ] 
arrhythmogenic rv dysplasia [ letter ] 
clinical pharmacology of digitalis glycosides [ letter ] 
tiapamil protection in ami [ letter ] 
the q-wave and transmural ami [ letter ] 
echography of pericardial mesothelioma [ letter ] 
cardiac alpha-receptors and cardiac hypertrophy in genetic predisposition to hypertension [ letter ] 
arrhythmias in athletes [ letter ] 
reversible dilation and lv hypertrophy [ letter ] 
ambulatory cardiac catheterization [ letter ] 
qt interval revisited [ letter ] 
lv myxoma resembling restrictive cardiomyopathy [ letter ] 
lv function in sickle cell anemia [ letter ] 
treatment of ventricular fibrillation [ letter ] 
results of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty by multiple relatively low frequency operators . 
a symposium : bevantolol--a new cardiovascular agent with a unique profile . april 21 , 1985 , geneva , switzerland . 
once- and twice-daily bevantolol for systemic hypertension using 24-hour ambulatory intraarterial blood pressure recording . the antihypertensive efficacy of bevantolol , a selective beta 1-adrenoreceptor antagonist , was evaluated in 17 patients with essential hypertension , using continuous ambulatory intraarterial blood pressure ( bp ) monitoring . the study compared a twice-daily regimen ( titrated dose of 200 to 600 mg / day ) with the same amount given in a single daily dose . within-patient comparisons of mean hourly systolic and diastolic bps and heart rate showed a highly significant effect with twice-daily therapy ( p less than 0.001 ) for all of the 24 hours . similar significant results were obtained with a single morning dose . there was no difference between the pattern or extent of bp reduction with the 2 regimens . the decrease in bp after bevantolol persisted during the physiologic tests ( rest , tilt , isometric and dynamic exercise ) . four patients developed minor side effects with the single morning dose , and only 1 patient with the twice-daily regimen . these effects included tiredness , fatigue and dizziness . unlike pure beta-blocking agents , bevantolol controlled the early morning increase in bp , lending support to the belief that it possesses vasodilatory properties in addition to beta blockade . these results suggest that bevantolol may be useful as first-line therapy in a once-daily dosage for the treatment of essential hypertension . 
renal hemodynamics and pharmacokinetics of bevantolol in patients with impaired renal function . the effects of bevantolol on renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate and the drug 's pharmacokinetics were studied for 7 days in 18 patients ( mean age 50 years ) with varying degrees of renal dysfunction . patients were divided into 3 groups : group 1 had a creatinine clearance of 50 to 80 ml / min , group 2 , 20 to 49 ml / min and group 3 , less than 20 ml / min . after baseline inulin and paraaminohippuric acid clearance values were obtained , patients were given a single , 150-mg " priming " administration of bevantolol . the kinetics of the drug ( including plasma drug levels , plasma half-life and plasma clearance ) and its effects on renal function were observed for 24 hours . on days 4 to 6 of the study , patients received 150 mg of bevantolol twice daily , with only a single dose given on day 7. bevantolol did not significantly affect either inulin or paraaminohippuric acid clearance in patients with differing degrees of renal function . in 50 % of patients with a creatinine clearance of less than or equal to 50 ml / min , both the half-life and maximum trough serum levels were higher than the ranges seen in healthy subjects . however , neither value appears to be clinically relevant because bevantolol has a wide therapeutic range . renal impairment did not change the percentages of the bevantolol dosage excreted unchanged or as conjugated drug in the urine , and no toxic or active drug metabolites accumulated in the blood . from these results , it appears that bevantolol may be used safely in short-term therapy of patients with renal impairment . 
comparison of bevantolol and atenolol for systemic hypertension . in an international , randomized , double-blind trial involving 229 patients , 400 mg of bevantolol was compared with 100 mg of atenolol ( both in single daily doses ) in the management of mild to moderate hypertension ( diastolic blood pressure [ bp ] 95 to 115 mm hg after a 4-week placebo washout period ) . patients were then randomized to 12 weeks of treatment with either drug . patients were evaluated at 2 , 4 , 8 and 12 weeks during the drug treatment period . efficacy measurements were based on sitting and standing bp and heart rate . adverse experiences were recorded on patient checklists , by spontaneous complaints and by 12-lead electrocardiography and funduscopy . a subgroup of 104 patients had heart rate and bp determinations every 24 to 26 hours after drug ingestion . overall results showed both drugs to be comparably effective ; no real difference was shown after 12 weeks of treatment . bevantolol caused a more gradual bp decrease than atenolol . both regimens were associated with decreased heart rate ( less marked with bevantolol , p less than 0.001 ) . data from the 24-hour assessment subgroup showed similar results for both drugs , with a somewhat lower decrease in bp for bevantolol , which persisted throughout the study . both drugs lowered sitting bp ; the decrease was significantly less with bevantolol after the second week of therapy . the mean number of adverse experiences was similar for both drugs ; cardiovascular side effects were less frequent with bevantolol . patients taking bevantolol showed a higher incidence of digestive system side effects . bevantolol maintained a 24-hour antihypertensive effect . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
usefulness of bevantolol for chronic , stable angina pectoris . an objective assessment of the efficacy of bevantolol was performed in 21 patients with chronic , stable angina using computer-assisted exercise testing and ambulatory st-segment monitoring . given once daily , 200 mg of bevantolol was compared with 200 mg of bevantolol given twice daily and with placebo , using a double-blind crossover technique . the mean exercise time with placebo was 7.4 + / - 0.6 minutes ; this increased to 10.6 + / - 0.9 minutes ( p less than 0.001 ) with once-daily bevantolol and to 9.4 + / - 0.9 minutes ( p less than 0.001 ) with twice-daily bevantolol . the mean heart rate at rest was 80 + / - 3 beats / min with placebo ; it decreased to 63 + / - 2 beats / min ( p less than 0.001 ) with once-daily bevantolol and to 66 + / - 2 beats / min ( p less than 0.001 ) with twice-daily bevantolol . the maximum exercise heart rate of 118 + / - 6 beats / min with placebo was reduced to 99 + / - 4 beats / min ( p less than 0.001 ) on once-daily and 101 + / - 4 beats / min ( p less than 0.001 ) on twice-daily bevantolol . there was a corresponding decrease in the rate-pressure product . the corrected maximum st-segment depression was reduced from 0.3 + / - 0.06 mm min-1 with placebo to 0.2 + / - 0.03 mm min-1 ( p less than 0.02 ) with once-daily and 0.2 + / - 0.04 mm min-1 ( p less than 0.05 ) with twice-daily bevantolol . the mean hourly ambulatory heart rate was significantly reduced for 21 hours with once-daily and 22 hours with twice-daily bevantolol . the lowest mean minimum heart rate was 55 beats / min during twice-daily treatment . the mean number of episodes of st depression over 24 hours in lead cm5 was decreased from 6.89 + / - 1.7 with placebo to 2.50 + / - 0.6 ( p less than 0.001 ) with once-daily and to 3.72 + / - 1.3 ( p less than 0.001 ) with twice-daily bevantolol . three patients were withdrawn during the once-daily bevantolol regimen due to adverse experiences , and another patient was admitted for coronary artery bypass surgery after 25 days . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
pharmacology of bevantolol hydrochloride . bevantolol is a cardioselective , beta-adrenoreceptor antagonist , devoid of intrinsic beta sympathomimetic activity and with weak membrane-stabilizing and local anesthetic properties . the 3 , 4-dimethoxyphenylethylamino moiety , substituted on the side chain amine function , confers cardioselectivity , which has been confirmed by a number of experiments . in vitro , bevantolol demonstrated greater antagonism of atrial than tracheal responses to isoproterenol . in vivo , bevantolol preferentially inhibited isoproterenol-induced tachycardias in conscious and anesthetized dogs , compared with the nonselective agent propranolol . conversely , its effect on blood pressure after isoproterenol was minimal compared with propranolol , reflecting its muted effect on beta 2 peripheral receptors . a functional difference between bevantolol and propranolol was demonstrated in histamine-challenged guinea pigs . bevantolol had little effect on the antiasthmatic effect of isoproterenol , whereas propranolol blocked it totally . bevantolol 's lack of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity was demonstrated in normal and reserpinized dogs , where it was devoid of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity at doses up to 10 mg / kg . similarly , intravenous doses of 10 mg / kg had to be administered before direct myocardial depression occurred in the reserpinized animals . metabolite 3 , which is excreted in trace amounts in human urine , demonstrates intrinsic sympathomimetic activity when administered in pharmacologic doses to dogs ; however , any clinical relevance remains to be established . several laboratories have demonstrated that bevantolol interacts at alpha-adrenergic sites . these data require further investigation . the dose-related antihypertensive effect of bevantolol has been demonstrated in spontaneously hypertensive and 2 kidney , 1 clip renal hypertensive rats . animal experiments also suggest that bevantolol may be useful in angina : it caused a favorable redistribution of blood flow in dogs in which the left circumflex artery had been stenosed . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
systemic and regional hemodynamic , antiarrhythmic and antiischemic effects of bevantolol in anesthetized pigs . in doses of 0.5 to 3.0 mg / kg bevantolol caused dose-dependent decreases in cardiac output ( 10 % to 35 % ) , primarily due to negative chronotropic actions , as heart rate decreased by 10 % to 25 % . stroke volume decreased after the highest dose ( 15 % ) , due to a negative inotropic action ( maximum left ventricular dp / dt decreased by 40 % ) and a mild vasoconstriction in systemic vascular beds . decreases in perfusion of the heart , kidneys , liver , spleen , stomach , muscles and adrenals were similar to those in cardiac output . however , blood flow to the brain and small intestine was not significantly affected . bevantolol ( 0.5 or 1.5 mg / kg iv ) gave full protection against ventricular fibrillation during the first period ( 10 minutes ) of proximal left anterior descending ( lad ) coronary artery occlusion in the highest dose . after the third and last reperfusion period , 70 % of these animals survived , while only 8 % of the untreated and 15 % of the animals treated with the lower dose survived . after permanent ligation of the lad coronary artery at midpoint , bevantolol prevented ventricular fibrillation during the first phase of early ventricular arrhythmias but was unable to prevent it during the second phase of early arrhythmias . administration of bevantolol ( 1.5 mg / kg ) to animals in which the lad coronary artery blood flow was reduced to 35 % of baseline did not improve transmural myocardial blood flow to the ischemic zone . however , the drug caused a redistribution in favor of the endocardial layers . the changes in flow were accompanied by a narrowing of the arterial-coronary venous differences in ph and pco2 . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
prevalence , characteristics and significance of ventricular tachycardia detected by 24-hour continuous electrocardiographic recordings in the late hospital phase of acute myocardial infarction . a 24-hour continuous electrocardiographic recording was made 11 + / - 3 days after acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) in 820 of the 867 participants in the multicenter post-infarction program . ninety patients ( 11 % ) had unsustained ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) and 2 ( 0.2 % ) had sustained vt ( more than 15 seconds ) . in 53 of the 92 patients ( 58 % ) with vt , only 1 episode of vt was in the recording . in 26 patients the longest episode of vt was 3 consecutive complexes ( 28 % ) ; in 56 patients ( 61 % ) it was 4 to 10 complexes ; and in only 10 patients ( 11 % ) were there more than 10 consecutive complexes . the average rate of vt was 121 + / - 34 complexes per minute ( range 75 to 240 ) . most episodes of vt started well after the t wave . occurrence of vt was strongly related to the frequency of ventricular premature complexes in the 24-hour recording ; 46 % of the patients with at least 100 ventricular premature complexes per hour had vt . the 92 patients who had vt were compared to the 728 who did not with respect to relevant clinical characteristics . several variables were significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) more common in the vt group : age older than 60 years , previous ami , history of angina pectoris , occurrence of vt or ventricular fibrillation in the coronary care unit , left ventricular ejection fraction less than 30 % , rales greater than bibasilar in the coronary care unit , and use of antiarrhythmic drugs , digitalis or diuretics at the time of discharge from hospital . based on kaplan-meier survival curves , the cumulative probability of surviving 3 years was 0.67 for patients with vt and 0.85 for patients without vt ( p less than 0.001 ) . there were no statistically significant associations between individual vt characteristics and mortality . however , patients with longer runs of vt tended to have a higher mortality rate , and both patients with sustained vt died in the first month after the index infarct . vt had a strong and statistically significant association ( p less than 0.05 ) with all-cause and arrhythmic mortality independent of other risk variables that were associated with vt . adjusted for other risk indicators , vt nearly doubled the risk of dying during an average follow-up of 31 months . 
intracoronary prostaglandin e1 plus streptokinase in acute myocardial infarction . fourteen patients with acute myocardial infarction ( duration of chest pain 5 + / - 2 hours ) received intracoronary infusion of prostaglandin e1 ( pge1 ) and streptokinase . intracoronary pge1 was followed by intracoronary streptokinase in 10 patients ( group a ) , with successful recanalization in all patients . of 4 patients in whom recanalization failed with intracoronary streptokinase given first ( group b ) , 2 had successful recanalization after addition of intracoronary pge1 . immediately after successful recanalization , left ventricular ejection fraction increased from 50 + / - 9 % to 62 + / - 10 % ( p less than 0.0008 ) , left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased from 20 + / - 10 to 16 + / - 10 mm hg ( p less than 0.05 ) and stroke volume index increased from 34 + / - 10 to 44 + / - 12 ml / m2 ( p less than 0.02 ) . infarct segment shortening improved from 9 + / - 5 to 18 + / - 4 % ( p less than 0.0002 ) . transient hypotension in 1 patient was the only complication . follow-up catheterization in recanalized patients at 2 to 10 days showed maintained improvement in left ventricular global and infarct segment function . reocclusion occurred in 1 patient . thus , intracoronary infusion of pge1 was effective in establishing reperfusion in all patients when followed by streptokinase and was associated with immediately improved left ventricular global and regional function . pge1 deserves further evaluation in acute myocardial infarction . 
predicting the extent and location of coronary artery disease in acute myocardial infarction by echocardiography during dobutamine infusion . the feasibility , safety and usefulness of 2-dimensional echocardiography ( 2-d echo ) during dobutamine infusion for identifying patients with multivessel coronary artery disease ( cad ) after acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) were evaluated in 30 patients 5 to 10 days after ami . patients underwent 2-d echo under basal conditions and during dobutamine infusion at each dose from 5 to a maximum of 40 micrograms / kg / min , limited multilead submaximal bicycle exercise testing and coronary and left ventricular angiography . echocardiograms were analyzed independently by 2 observers . the test response was considered positive if abnormal wall motion and reduced myocardial thickening were observed during dobutamine infusion in vascular distributions other than the area of infarction identified during basal conditions . exercise testing was considered positive when more than 1 mm of st depression occurred 80 ms after the j point . dobutamine stress testing was well tolerated ; no complications and no significant arrhythmia were observed . echocardiographic recordings were adequate in all patients during the entire test ; the concordance in interpretation between the 2 observers was perfect for the prediction and location of ischemic segments during dobutamine infusion . in 15 of 17 patients without multivessel cad , no asynergy was observed outside the infarct zone during dobutamine infusion ( specificity 88 % ) . in 11 of 13 patients with multivessel cad , new wall motion abnormalities were identified in the segments corresponding to the arterial lesions diagnosed by angiography ( sensitivity 85 % ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
non-q-wave acute myocardial infarction : body surface potential map and ventriculographic patterns . day 5 body surface map and radionuclide angiographic patterns were compared among 56 patients with first non-q-wave or q-wave acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) . three radionuclide angiographic patterns were recognized in patients with non-q infarction : no wall motion abnormalities ( n = 8 ) , single-segment wall motion abnormalities ( n = 10 ) and multiple-segment wall motion abnormalities ( n = 9 ) . in contrast , only 2 radionuclide angiographic patterns were identified in patients with q-wave infarction : multiple-segment wall motion abnormalities ( n = 25 ) and single-segment wall motion abnormalities ( n = 4 ) . the q-wave distributions of 14 of 18 patients with non-q infarction with 0 or 1 wall motion abnormalities were normal ; 2 patients had " missed " anterior ; 1 patient had inferior ; and 1 had posterior ami patterns . of 9 patients with non-q infarction who had multiple-segment wall motion abnormalities , 8 had infarct q waves on the posterior torso . q-wave patterns in patients with anterior ( n = 17 ) and inferior ( n = 12 ) q-wave infarctions were typical and homogeneous for each group . quantitative analysis of minimum q-zone integral , sigma q-wave integrals , st-integral maximum , wall motion abnormality score and ejection fraction revealed no differences between patients with non-q-wave and those with inferior q-wave infarction . in contrast , patients with anterior ami had significantly more abnormal values of all variables than either of the other groups . overall , the data support the concept of non-q-wave ami as a distinct , if heterogeneous , pathophysiologic entity . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
prognostic implications of angiographically normal and insignificantly narrowed coronary arteries . the clinical presentation and prognosis of 1 , 977 consecutive patients with normal coronary arteries or " insignificant " coronary artery disease ( cad ) ( no major epicardial artery with 75 % or more luminal diameter narrowing ) were examined . compared with patients with significant cad , these patients had a lower frequency of traditional cardiac risk factors and abnormalities on the rest and exercise electrocardiogram . cardiac survival was 99 % at 5 years of follow-up and 98 % at 10 years for patients with normal or insignificantly narrowed coronary arteries . patients with normal coronary arteries differed from those with insignificant cad in their myocardial infarction free survival rate : 99 % at 5 years and 98 % at 10 years for patients with normal coronary arteries , compared with 97 % at 5 years and 90 % at 10 years for patients with insignificant cad . a strong relation occurred between the amount of insignificant cad and follow-up cardiac events ( chi 2 = 21.5 , p less than 0.0001 ) . cardiac risk factors were statistically related to the risk of follow-up cardiovascular events when considered alone ( chi 2 = 4.93 , p = 0.026 ) , but this relation lost significance after adjusting for the effect of coronary anatomy . patients in both groups continued to have cardiac symptoms that resulted in frequent hospitalizations , medication use and job disability . almost 50 % in any given year of follow-up could not perform activities of high metabolic equivalent requirement and 70 % had continuing symptoms of chest discomfort . although these patients are at low risk of death , many remain functionally impaired for years . 
temporal relation of changes in regional coronary flow and myocardial lactate and nucleoside metabolism during pacing-induced ischemia . the temporal relation between myocardial lactate and hypoxanthine metabolism and regional changes in krypton-81m perfusion during pacing-induced ischemia was studied in 17 patients with coronary artery disease ( cad ) . during incremental atrial pacing , lactate production and hypoxanthine release occurred early and simultaneously , accompanied by st-segment changes , but before angina and only few minutes after a significant ( 17 % ) reduction in krypton-81m perfusion in areas with more than 90 % luminal diameter reduction . during maximal pacing heart rates , krypton-81m distribution decreased to 68 + / - 7 % of control in areas with more than 90 % diameter reduction and to 80 + / - 4 % in 70 to 90 % reduction ( both p less than 0.05 vs control ) . maximal lactate production occurred 15 seconds after pacing ( extraction -15 + / - 7 % vs 16 + / - 2 % during control , p less than 0.05 ) and peak hypoxanthine release 1 minute after pacing ( delta arteriovenous -2.64 + / - 0.8 microm vs 0.08 + / - 0.21 microm during control , p less than 0.05 ) . krypton-81m perfusion decreased in 20 of the 21 cad areas . angina , st-segment changes , hemodynamic alterations and lactate production occurred in 15 , 14 , 9 and 15 patients , respectively . in contrast , hypoxanthine release was found in all cases . after pacing , lactate production and all general indexes of ischemia persisted for only 2 to 3 minutes . in contrast , krypton-81m perfusion was still significantly reduced 5 minutes after pacing and was only accompanied by hypoxanthine release ( delta arteriovenous -1.41 + / - 0.6 microm , p less than 0.05 vs control ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
analysis of cardiac symptoms preceding cardiac arrest . prodromal symptoms and cardiac history were examined in 227 patients with coronary artery disease who were successfully resuscitated after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest . cardiac arrest was sudden--with either no symptoms or symptoms for less than 1 hour--in 71 % of the patients . nonsudden death--death occurring after more than 1 hour of symptoms--occurred in 29 % of the patients . a history of cardiovascular disease was present in 85 % of patients with sudden cardiac arrest and in 83 % with nonsudden arrest . cardiac arrest occurred without symptoms in 38 % of the patients with sudden cardiac arrest and was the first expression of coronary artery disease in 4 % of the entire study group . this study indicates that cardiac arrest usually occurs with symptoms and almost always in the setting of a history of cardiovascular disease . 
coronary and systemic hemodynamic effects of intravenous nisoldipine . systemic and coronary hemodynamic effects of the new dihydropyridine calcium antagonist nisoldipine were studied over a 30-minute period in 12 patients with angina pectoris . previously instituted beta-blocker therapy was continued . nisoldipine was administered in an intravenous bolus of 6 micrograms / kg over 3 minutes . heart rate increased as mean aortic pressure and systemic vascular resistance decreased in all patients . cardiac output increased significantly , from 5.8 + / - 0.3 to 7.9 + / - 0.5 liters / min , 10 minutes after nisoldipine infusion . these trends were maintained over the 30-minute observation period . coronary sinus blood flow increased from 103 + / - 11 to 139 + / - 13 ml / min immediately after nisoldipine , but had returned to the control level by 30 minutes , as had the reduction in coronary vascular resistance . myocardial oxygen consumption and heart rate-systolic blood pressure product did not change significantly . nisoldipine is a potent peripheral and coronary vasodilator free of major myocardial depressant effects after acute intravenous administration . the systemic vasodilatory effects appear to outlast the coronary effects over 30 minutes . 
maintenance of increased coronary blood flow in excess of demand by nisoldipine administered as an intravenous infusion . systemic and hemodynamic effects of nisoldipine , administered as a 4.5-micrograms / kg intravenous bolus over 3 minutes followed immediately by an infusion of 0.2 microgram / kg / min over 30 minutes , were studied in 13 patients undergoing diagnostic catheterization for suspected coronary artery disease or follow-up catheterization after coronary angioplasty . responses to the drug tended to be exaggerated in the first 8 minutes of the infusion , but thereafter produced a steady state , with heart rate increased by 14 + / - 3 % at 16 minutes and by 15 + / - 3 % at 24 minutes ( p less than 0.05 ) , mean aortic pressure decreased 12 + / - 2 % and 13 + / - 3 % at the same times ( p less than 0.05 ) and coronary venous blood flow increased by 31 + / - 5 % and 34 + / - 6 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . myocardial oxygen consumption and the heart rate-systolic aortic pressure product were unchanged and cardiac output and stroke volume were significantly increased . study during matched coronary sinus pacing produced similar trends . nisoldipine is a potent coronary and peripheral vasodilator that maintains an increase in myocardial oxygen supply in excess of demand when given as an intravenous infusion . 
frequency of complications of mitral valve prolapse in subjects aged 60 years and older . one hundred forty-five patients ( 74 women , 71 men ) , aged 60 years and older , with echocardiographically documented mitral valve prolapse were studied . one hundred sixteen patients had precordial systolic murmurs , 20 of whom were suspected of having mitral valve prolapse before the echocardiographic study . infective endocarditis occurred in 7 patients , cerebral ischemic events in 13 and spontaneous rupture of chordae tendineae in 33. four other patients had ruptured chordae tendineae associated with infective endocarditis . congestive heart failure was present in 35 patients , 11 of whom had undergone mitral valve surgery . 
cardiac conduction abnormalities complicating native valve active infective endocarditis . two hundred eleven episodes of native valve active infective endocarditis treated at the massachusetts general hospital between 1975 and 1983 were reviewed . the aortic ( 36 % ) and mitral ( 33 % ) valves were most frequently involved , but in 21 % of the cases the site of infection could not be localized . streptococcal ( 50 % ) and staphylococcal ( 35 % ) species were the most frequently isolated pathogens . new or changing ( " unstable " ) conduction abnormalities developed in 9 % of the patients , while an additional 7 % had conduction abnormalities of " indeterminate " age . unstable conduction block was more likely to develop in patients with aortic valve infective endocarditis than in those with mitral infection . surgery was performed in 23 % of the patients . unstable conduction abnormalities were significantly associated with valve replacement , but in a multivariate analysis , this effect could be explained by the site of valvular infection . the mortality rate was 20 % . patients with unstable conduction abnormalities had a significantly higher mortality rate , even after other significant predictors of death ( age , type of causative organism ) were taken into account . patients whose conduction changes persisted had a worse prognosis than those with transient conduction abnormalities . although more hemodynamically compromised , patients with unstable conduction block who underwent valve replacement did at least as well as those given medical therapy alone . patients with native valve active infective endocarditis in whom persistent , unstable conduction abnormalities develop without other identifiable cause , especially in the presence of aortic valve infection , should be considered for valve replacement . 
usefulness of radionuclide angiocardiography in predicting stenotic mitral orifice area . fifteen patients with pure mitral stenosis ( ms ) underwent high-temporal-resolution radionuclide angiocardiography for calculation of the ratio of peak left ventricular ( lv ) filling rate divided by mean lv filling rate ( filling ratio ) . whereas lv filling normally occurs in 3 phases , in ms it is more uniform . thus , in 13 patients the filling ratio was below the normal range of 2.21 to 2.88 ( p less than 0.001 ) . in 11 patients in atrial fibrillation , filling ratio divided by mean cardiac cycle length and by lv ejection fraction provided good correlation ( r = 0.85 ) with modified gorlin formula derived mitral area and excellent correlation with echocardiographic mitral area ( r = 0.95 ) . significant ms can be detected using radionuclide angiocardiography to calculate filling ratio . in the absence of the confounding influence of atrial systole calculation of 0.14 ( filling ratio divided by cardiac cycle length divided by lv ejection fraction ) + 0.40 cm2 enables accurate prediction of mitral area ( + / - 4 % ) . our data support the contention that the modified gorlin formula , based on steady-state hemodynamics , provides less certain estimates of mitral area for patients with ms and atrial fibrillation , in whom echocardiography and radionuclide angiocardiography may be more accurate . 
morphologic characteristics and structure of surface excrescences ( lambl 's excrescences ) in the normal aortic valve . the incidence , morphologic characteristics and structure of surface valve excrescences ( lambl 's excrescences ) were studied by transmission and scanning electron microscopy of the aortic valve of 56 human subjects , age range birth to 91 years , without cardiac disease . valve excrescences consisting of a core of connective tissue covered by the endocardium were observed in 90 % of the subjects ; the incidence was significantly lower in patients in the first decade of life . two types of excrescences , lamellar and filiform , were found . lamellar excrescences are located along the lower boundary of the lunulas and occurred more often in those younger than 30 years . filiform excrescences appear most often in the nodulus arantius and in the free-margin of the cusps . the excrescences of the nodulus are the most numerous . free-margin excrescences are the least numerous and occur more frequently in persons older than 40 years . the connective tissue core of the filiform excrescences contains abundant collagen fibrils and elastic material arranged in apposed layers with different collagen fibril orientation . a circular zone devoid of identifiable connective tissue is present at the center of the filiform excrescences . 
postmortem echocardiography and tomographic anatomy of hypoplastic left heart syndrome after palliative surgery . a study was undertaken to improve the understanding of the 3-dimensional ( 3-d ) topology of a complex surgical reconstruction . the pathologic anatomy was investigated by first fixing postmortem heart specimens in such a way as to preserve the 3-d relations . next , a technique for postmortem 2-d echocardiography was developed to aid in selection of tomographic planes for sectioning the specimens . subsequent adjustment of planes of section was made to better show particular facets of the anatomy . the material for this investigation was drawn from cases of hypoplastic left heart syndrome after surgical palliation by the norwood procedure . three potential hemodynamic sequelae--restrictive inter atrial communication , aortic obstruction at any level and distortion of the pulmonary artery confluence--served as the anatomic focus for this study . careful preservation of 3-d topology and postmortem 2-d echocardiographic imaging coupled with tomographic sectioning of specimens led to development of new , clinically relevant echocardiographic views for imaging specific atrial septal and aortic arch anomalies . these techniques offer insight into the spectrum of anatomic sequelae of this type of surgery and may be applied to echocardiographic imaging of patients and refinement of surgical technique for other forms of complex congenital heart disease . 
transient prolongation of the qtc interval after balloon valvuloplasty and angioplasty in children . qtc-interval changes were evaluated in 39 children who had undergone balloon dilation procedures . in 30 children who had undergone balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty ( bpv ) , qtc intervals were measured on standard electrocardiograms recorded before and 16 to 24 hours after the procedure and at follow-up during the next 1 to 15 months ( mean 7 ) . the qtc interval increased from 0.380 + / - 0.027 second before bpv to 0.429 + / - 0.027 second after bpv ( p less than 0.002 ) and returned to 0.377 + / - 0.026 second at follow-up . to determine when during the catheterization-dilation procedure the qtc interval increased , qtc intervals were measured on monitor electrocardiograms recorded during cardiac catheterization . the baseline qtc was 0.382 + / - 0.041 second , was unchanged after angiography and increased to 0.427 + / - 0.043 second after bpv ( p less than 0.002 ) . a similar prolongation occurred in 3 of 4 children who had undergone balloon aortic valvuloplasty and in 4 of 5 who had undergone coarctation angioplasty . in control children , who had undergone catheterization without dilation , qtc was unchanged . thus , transient increases in qtc interval occur after semilunar valvuloplasty and coarctation angioplasty . these dilation procedures are a cause of qtc prolongation ; however , the mechanism is unknown . it is possible that the sudden unilateral increase in afterload affects the myocardium or myocardial sympathetic receptors . because qtc prolongation may predispose children to the r-on-t phenomenon , postprocedure monitoring appears to be warranted . 
detection of cerebral injury after total circulatory arrest and profound hypothermia by estimation of specific creatine kinase isoenzyme levels using monoclonal antibody techniques [ published erratum appears in am j cardiol 1987 may 1 ; 59 ( 12 ) : a12 ] new 2-site labeled monoclonal antibody techniques were used to measure serially plasma levels of brain-type creatine kinase ( ck-bb ) , heart-type creatine kinase ( ck-mb ) and muscle-type creatine kinase ( ck-mm ) during a 20-hour postoperative period in 24 infants after deep hypothermia and total circulatory arrest used in pediatric cardiac surgery . a control group of 7 children undergoing cardiovascular procedures without extracorporeal circulation or circulatory arrest also were studied . there were marked increases in ck-mb and ck-bb levels in the circulatory arrest group but not in the closed group . ck-bb increased from 3.2 + / - 0.5 to 27 + / - 10 ng / ml and ck-mb from 5.9 + / - 2.1 to 137 + / - 12 ng / ml . the ck-mm concentrations increased from 299 + / - 91 and 194 + / - 49 ng / ml to 1 , 220 + / - 274 and 1 , 322 + / - 142 ng / ml in the closed and circulatory arrest groups , respectively . peak levels of ck-mb and ck-bb occurred an average of 133 and 127 minutes , respectively , after reperfusion . the half-time of ck-bb differed significantly from that of ck-mb ( 149 + / - 15 vs 359 + / - 20 minutes ) . the arrest time had a more marked effect on ck-bb concentration than on ck-mb and ck-mm concentrations . arteriointernal jugular venous concentration differences were consistently negative for ck-bb in the circulatory arrest group , but not for ck-mm and ck-mb . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
transient myocardial ischemia during daily life in patients with syndrome x . nineteen patients with syndrome x ( typical exertional angina , positive exercise test response [ at least 0.1 mv of st-segment depression ] , no evidence of coronary spasm and angiographically normal coronary arteries ) underwent continuous 48-hour electrocardiographic ( ecg ) monitoring during unrestricted daily life . fifty-eight ischemic episodes of at least 0.1 mv of st-segment depression were observed in the same ecg leads that showed st depression during stress testing : 28 ( 48 % ) were accompanied by anginal pain and 30 ( 52 % ) were asymptomatic . no significant differences were found between painful and silent st-segment depression with regard to the number of episodes , their temporal distribution , magnitude , duration or heart rate ( hr ) at onset of st-segment depression . in the minute preceding ischemic st shifts , hr did not change in 33 % of episodes or increased by less than 10 beats / min in 28 % . hr at onset of st depression was significantly lower during ambulatory ecg monitoring than during exercise testing ( 98 + / - 18 vs 117 + / - 18 beats / min , p less than 0.01 ) . during ambulatory monitoring , 85 episodes of sinus tachycardia ( exceeding by 10 to 80 beats / min the hr that triggered ischemia during exercise testing ) occurred in the absence of angina or st-segment shifts . the results of this study suggest that in patients with syndrome x , myocardial ischemia frequently develops during daily life ; silent ischemia is an important component of this syndrome ; and increased oxygen demand in the presence of impaired coronary vasodilatory capacity is not the only cause of myocardial ischemia . active mechanisms that transiently reduce coronary flow may act and explain occurrence of angina at rest and with minimal exertion . 
echocardiographic left ventricular mass and physical activity : quantification of the relation in spinal cord injured and apparently healthy active men . to assess the relation of echocardiographic left ventricular ( lv ) mass to reported physical activity , 2 groups of subjects with widely different physical activity levels were evaluated : 50 men with spinal cord injuries and 166 apparently healthy , active men . multivariate analysis revealed that reported physical activity was a significant independent predictor of lv mass index ( lv mass / body surface area ) in both injured patients and healthy , active subjects after controlling for age and blood pressure . the relation between lv mass index and physical activity ( linear regression ) was similar for both groups ; lv mass index = 0.00321 ( physical activity ) + 82.8 and lv mass index = 0.00335 ( physical activity ) +88.4 for patients and healthy active subjects , respectively . these results suggest that physical activity as assessed by self-report is associated with echocardiographically detectable differences in lv mass in groups with widely divergent physical activity levels . in addition , for each of these groups 1 , 000 kcal / week of physical activity apparently results in a change of approximately 3 g / m2 in lv mass index . this information may have practical use for correction of lv mass for the effects of physical activity . 
left ventricular diastolic function in weight lifters . concentric left ventricular ( lv ) hypertrophy and asymmetric septal hypertrophy have both been described in weight lifters , but diastolic filling , which is abnormal in pathologically hypertrophied ventricles , has not been investigated in such subjects . accordingly , pulsed doppler examination of lv inflow , m-mode and 2-dimensional echocardiography were performed in 16 competitive weight lifters and 10 age-matched male control subjects . peak and mean filling rates were determined in milliliters per second as the product of the cross-sectional area of the mitral anulus and the doppler-derived peak early and mean transmitral inflow velocities , respectively . rapid filling index was defined as peak filling rate divided by mean filling rate . flow velocity integrals of the early and atrial diastolic filling phases were also measured . lv end-diastolic volume and ejection fraction were measured using 2-dimensional echocardiography . weight lifters had significantly higher lv end-diastolic volume ( 181 + / - 50 vs 136 + / - 40 ml , p less than 0.05 ) and dimension ( 5.6 + / - 0.6 vs 5.1 + / - 0.5 cm , p less than 0.05 ) , and posterior wall thickness ( 0.9 + / - 0.2 vs 0.8 + / - 0.1 , p less than 0.05 ) ; however , after correction for body surface area there was no significant difference in these values . weight lifters had significantly higher lv mass ( 241 + / - 70 vs 165 + / - 29 , p less than 0.02 ) and lv mass index ( 114 + / - 29 vs 87 + / - 15 g / m2 , p less than 0.05 ) . there was no significant difference between the weight lifters and control subjects in rapid filling index , early to late integral ratio or ejection fraction . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
effects of dipyridamole and low-dose aspirin therapy on platelet adhesion to vascular subendothelium . the effect on platelet function of low-dose aspirin ( asa ) and dipyridamole alone or in combination was evaluated after repeated dosing in 5 healthy volunteers . the subjects were treated according to a randomized , single-blind , crossover design with 150 mg of dipyridamole , 25 mg of asa , the 2 drugs together or placebo twice a day for 3 days . platelet adhesin was evaluated using an experimental model of adhesion to rat aorta subendothelium under controlled hemodynamic conditions in the presence of red blood cells . dipyridamole significantly reduced platelet adhesion both alone and in combination with asa . asa by itself did not significantly modify platelet adhesion , but completely blocked serum thromboxane production and platelet aggregation by arachidonic acid . thus , low-dose asa and dipyridamole may have a complementary action , modifying at the same time 2 platelet functions , adhesion and aggregation , both relevant in the pathogenesis of thrombosis . 
safety considerations related to ultrasonic energy exposure during echocardiographic examinations [ editorial ] 
correlations of body mass indices with weight , stature , and body composition in men and women in nhanes i and ii . it is useful to develop indices of weight and stature , or body mass indices ( bmis ) , that are highly correlated with weight , are independent of stature , and accurately reflect body composition . the anthropometric data collected in the nhanes i ( 1971-74 ) and nhanes ii ( 1976-80 ) us population samples were used to test the statistical characteristics and biologic correlations of various bmis reported in the literature . bmis that are independent of stature and still highly correlated to weight ( r = 0.89-0.98 ) over all ages and distributions of fatness and leanness are w / s2 in men and both w / s and w / s1.5 in women . these bmis are also highly correlated to measured and calculated estimates of body composition including subscapular skinfold thickness ( r = 0.78-0.80 ) , arm circumference ( r = 0.83-0.89 ) , and arm fat area ( r = 0.71-0.83 ) . 
effects of training on weight , food intake , and body composition in aging rats . this study investigated the effect of endurance training on body weight , food intake , and body composition in female rats age 6 , 15 , and 27 mo . animals underwent 12 wk of treadmill running . there was a significant increase in percent body fat associated with age . training induced significant reductions in body fat which were of the same relative magnitude in all age groups . the 6-mo and 15-mo exercising rats significantly increased their food intake in response to the training stimulus ; the 27-mo trained animals were unable to increase their food consumption relative to controls . it was concluded that 27-mo old animals are capable of changes in body composition similar to those of their younger counterparts , however , physiological mechanisms responsible for these shifts are age dependent . older animals do not compensate their dietary intake for the increased energy expenditure of exercise as do the younger animals . 
subcutaneous and visceral fat distribution according to sex , age , and overweight , evaluated by computed tomography . subcutaneous and visceral fat distribution as related to sex , age , and overweight was studied in 130 subjects and 10 women with cushing 's disease . fat depots were evaluated by computed tomography at one thoracic and one abdominal level . adipose tissue ( density range - 50 to 250 hansfield units ) was highlighted and the fat areas were measured by a laser planimeter . the ratio between subcutaneous and visceral fat areas ( s : v ratio ) was assumed as an index . ratios of both nonobese and obese groups were significantly higher in females than in males . ratios decreased markedly over age 60. there was a significant inverse correlation between age and s : v ratios in females ( r = 0.65 ; p less than 0.001 ) and in males ( r = 0.61 ; p less than 0.001 ) . statistically significant correlations were found between s : v ratios at thoracic and abdominal levels . in cushing 's patients , the s : v ratio at the abdominal level was significantly lower than in controls matched for age , sex , and body mass index . 
contractile properties of the adductor pollicis in obese patients on a hypocaloric diet for two weeks . the muscle function of 21 obese patients on a hypocaloric diet ( 450 kcal / day ) was studied . on days 1 , 7 , and 12 the maximal isometric force and contractile properties ( force : frequency relationship , relaxation rate , and fatigability ) of the adductor pollicis were measured . the patients lost a mean of 5.7 kg but there was no significant change in the muscle strength or contractile properties . twenty normal and three malnourished patients were also studied ; the latter demonstrated abnormalities of muscle function . the use of such tests to monitor changes in nutritional status must be treated with caution . 
changes in mood after carbohydrate consumption among obese individuals . two groups of obese individuals who consume excessive calories primarily as snack foods have been identified . carbohydrate cravers consume most or all snacks as carbohydrate-rich foods despite the equal accessibility of protein-rich snacks . noncarbohydrate cravers consume about equal amounts of protein- and carbohydrate-rich snack foods . using standardized self-report questionnaires , we measured mood before and 2 h after consumption of a high-carbohydrate lunch ( 104 g cho ) . responses to the meal differed significantly : noncarbohydrate cravers reported feeling considerably less alert , more fatigued and sleepy , while carbohydrate cravers described little or no change in these aspects of mood . moreover , noncarbohydrate cravers experienced an increase in depression , while carbohydrate cravers reported feeling less depressed . findings suggest that snacking habits of obese individuals may be related to subsequent mood states . 
no correlation between adiposity and food intake : why are working class children fatter ? many studies have failed to show a correlation between individual energy intake and obesity . however , the prevalence of overweight is higher in populations with higher caloric intake . in this study on a population of french children , no correlation was found between energy intake and individual corpulence ( wt / ht2 index or skinfold thickness ) , but a higher proportion of overweight children was found in lower social classes where energy intake is traditionally higher . a hypothesis is proposed to account for this apparent contradiction : the typical lifestyle or diet in a given population challenges individual adaptive capacities ; the more caloric the socially accepted diet , the higher the proportion of individuals who are challenged beyond their adaptive threshold . socially determined factors such as a high calorie diet act in a permissive way in the development of obesity although the caloric intake of obese individuals may be no different from that of nonobese peers . 
relationship of dietary fat , protein , cholesterol , and fiber intake to atherogenic lipoproteins in men . nutritional components ( g / 1000 kcal ) obtained from 3-day diet records are compared to triglyceride , total cholesterol , low-density ( ldl ) , intermediate-density ( idl ) , and very low-density ( vldl ) lipoprotein concentrations of 77 free-living men . polyunsaturated-fatty acid consumption correlated negatively with concentrations of triglycerides , total cholesterol , ldl- and vldl-cholesterol , and total-lipoprotein mass of smaller-ldl particles ( sf0 0-7 ) , idl ( sf0 12-20 ) , and vldl ( sf0 20-400 ) in serum and plasma . animal-protein consumption correlated positively and plant-protein consumption correlated negatively with triglycerides , smaller-ldl mass , vldl-cholesterol , and vldl-mass levels . serum concentrations of smaller-ldl particles were also positively correlated with dietary-cholesterol intake and negatively correlated with crude-fiber consumption . thus , diet-lipoprotein relationships observed cross-culturally and experimentally are further supported when detailed dietary measurements from 3-day diet records and lipoprotein measurements from repeated blood samplings are correlated in free-living men . 
effect of high-fat diet on cholesterol distribution in plasma lipoproteins , cholesterol esterifying activity in leucocytes , and erythrocyte membrane components studied : importance of body weight . effects of isocaloric changes in dietary fat on plasma lipoproteins and lipids and enzymes of erythrocytes and leucocytes were assessed . subjects with a higher brocca index showed increase in total and ldl cholesterol , significant reduction in hdl cholesterol , and increased total cholesterol : hdl cholesterol ratio after high-fat diet consumption . due to high-fat diet feeding , erythrocyte membrane and leucocyte cholesterol and phospholipid contents were increased , cholesterol : phospholipid molar ratio was elevated , and erythrocyte enzymes ( g6pd and 6pgd ) and leucocyte enzymes ( ceh and ces ) were elevated . erythrocyte membrane glycoprotein components showed marked increase , indicating possible alterations of membrane surfaces . the metabolic alterations were reversed slowly after resumption of the normal ( low-fat ) diet . body weight plays an important role in the alterations in major lipoprotein cholesterol contents in response to changes in dietary fat composition . cellular changes indicate alterations in structure and function of blood cells due to high-fat diet feeding . 
plasma branched-chain keto acids in burn patients . plasma branched-chain keto acids ( bcka ) and glucose-alanine cycle-related substances were measured in venous and arterial blood following burn injury . it was found that the three bcka diminished with a minimum on day 7 while pyruvate increased . alanine and glutamate + glutamine also decreased but plasma branched-chain amino acids ( bcaa ) did not vary . bcka and gluconeogenic amino acids were liberated by peripheral tissues whereas bcaa were not . by analogy with the fate of alanine , a reduction in plasma bcka associated with a high release by peripheral tissues might involve an increase in their hepatic metabolism . the bcka would then give rise to ketone bodies used by the peripheral tissue . this step would complete the glucose-alanine cycle described by cahill in hypercatabolic states where energy requirements are intense and similar to those found in burn injuries . 
efficiency of substitution of 2-ketoisocaproic acid and 2-ketoisovaleric acid in the diet of normal and uremic growing rats . effects of various intakes of the ketoanalogues of leucine ( kica ) and valine ( kiva ) on growth , nitrogen , and urea excretion were examined and compared to those of an optimal intake ( a ) of the corresponding amino acids . diet kica and kiva contents varied from 1 to 4 times a . in controls , growth was significantly reduced with equimolar substitution , corrected with twice a , and unchanged at higher levels . doubling kica corrected growth except with substantial anorexia . in uremic rats fed kiva , growth was corrected at twice a . low-kica diets reduced plasma-leucine level ; higher kica diets normalized plasma leucine and revealed branched-chain amino acid ( bcaa ) antagonism . changes in 2-ketoacids were unrelated to those of bcaa . in uremia , kica decreased plasma and urinary urea without changing nitrogen retention . ketoacid substitution for amino acids was 50 % efficient in normal rats and not altered by uremia . bckas , specifically kica , could modify urea metabolism . 
the effect of methionine and protein deficiency in delaying expulsion of nippostrongylus brasiliensis in the rat . three protein-deficient diets containing 5 % , 6 % , or 7 % casein , with and without 0.3 % methionine supplementation , were fed to wistar rats from weaning for 6 wk . animals were infected subcutaneously with 1500 larvae of nippostrongylus brasiliensis and killed after 14 days when nutritionally normal animals have expelled more than 97 % of the worm burden . there was a delay in worm expulsion that was related to both the protein content ( p = 0.0006 ) and to methionine content ( p less than 0.0001 ) . methionine supplementation significantly reduced the worm burden in animals fed the 7 % protein diet from a geometric mean of 32.4 to 5.2 ( p = 0.0408 ) and in rats fed the 6 % protein diet from a mean of 162 to 8.1 ( p = 0.0002 ) but had no effect in rats on the 5 % casein diet . thus , addition of methionine overcame the adverse effect of protein deficiency in these less severely affected groups . 
effect of iron therapy on phagocytosis and bactericidal activity in neutrophils of iron-deficient infants . phagocytosis and bactericidal capacity of neutrophils were measured in 10 iron-deficient infants age 6-23 mo . all infants had hemoglobins less than 11 mg / dl with low saturation of transferrin and serum ferritin but were otherwise in good health . neutrophil function and iron status were assessed at 0 , 3-5 , 15 , 30 , and 90 days of oral iron therapy . phagocytosis was unaffected in iron deficiency and remained unchanged during therapy . bactericidal capacity was severely impaired prior to treatment . after 3-5 days of ferrous sulfate administration , there was no significant improvement . at day 15 it returned to normal ranges and remained so at days 30 and 90. the sequence of events suggests that iron does not have a direct effect upon circulating neutrophils but , rather , that it is required during the development of neutrophils in the bone marrow . 
oral calcium and blood pressure : a controlled intervention trial . in a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial with 58 normotensive female students , the effect of oral-calcium supplementation ( 1500 mg ca++ / day for 6 wk ) on diastolic and systolic blood pressure was studied while students were consuming a low-calcium diet ( 500 mg ca++ / day ) by restricting the intake of dairy products . results show that , in both the calcium- and placebo-supplemented groups , blood pressure values decreased slightly and no effect of oral-calcium supplementation on blood pressure could be demonstrated . in addition , at baseline neither systolic nor diastolic blood pressure correlated with habitual calcium intake . diastolic but not systolic blood pressure correlated significantly with body mass index ( r = 0.31 , p = 0.01 ) . it is concluded that oral-calcium supplementation for 6 wk does not influence blood pressure in young , healthy normotensive females consuming low-calcium diet . 
the relationship of bone mass and fracture history to fluoride and calcium intake : a study of three communities . stimulated by the suggestion that water fluoride greater than 1 mg / l may protect against osteoporosis , we studied bone mass of women in three rural communities with differing mineral content of the water supply . mean fluoride and calcium of community drinking waters were 4 mg / l and 16 mg / l , respectively , high fluoride community ; 1 mg / l and 375 mg / l , respectively , high calcium community ; and 1 mg / l and 65 mg / l , respectively , low calcium community . bone mass was measured by single photon absorptiometry , and women were interviewed about fracture history , dietary intake , and other important covariates . we observed no protective effect with higher fluoride intake . bone mass was lower in older women from the high fluoride community though not statistically so ; these women reported significantly more fractures . there was no observed community difference in young women 's bone mass or fracture history . young women in the high fluoride community consuming calcium and vitamin d in excess of 800 mg / day and 400 iu / day , respectively , had significantly better bone mass ( p less than 0.05 ) than their peers . 
serum copper and ceruloplasmin levels and urinary copper excretion in thermal injury . conflicting reports regarding copper status in thermal injury patients have been published . we determined serial serum-copper and serum-ceruloplasmin levels and 24-h urinary excretion of copper in 23 patients with second- and third-degree thermal burns . throughout hospitalization , mean serum-copper concentration was significantly depressed ; lowest levels were found in patients with greater than 40 % total body surface area burns . serum ceruloplasmin was also depressed , an unexpected finding because this protein is a positive acute-phase reactant poststress . mean urinary excretion of copper was elevated , reaching 2.5 times the upper limit of normal 2 wk postburn . depressed serum-copper levels paralleled the serum-ceruloplasmin levels rather than the increased urinary-copper losses . further studies are required to determine the mechanism ( s ) of this altered copper metabolism and whether physiological or biochemical evidence of copper deficiency accompanies the observed hypocupremia . 
absorption of water-miscible forms of vitamin e in a patient with cholestasis and in thoracic duct-cannulated rats . oral administration of vitamin e ( 100 mg tocopherol x kg-1 x day-1 ) as tocopheryl polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate ( tpgs ) to a child with congenital hepatic cholestasis ( unresponsive to oral administration of dl-alpha-tocopheryl acetate ) promoted an increase of tocopherol in plasma and adipose tissue while tocopheryl acetate emulsified with medium chain triglycerides and polysorbate 80 ( mct-e ) did not . alpha-tocopherol absorption , quantitated in thoracic duct-cannulated rats receiving intraduodenal infusions of soybean oil and saline , was similar for tpgs , mct-e , and dl-alpha-tocopheryl acetate ; gamma-tocopherol absorption from soybean oil was not affected by the presence of the supplemental alpha-tocopherol . following bile duct ligation in one rat , tpgs promoted the absorption of alpha-tocopherol while absorption of gamma-tocopherol from soybean oil was decreased 30 fold , demonstrating that tpgs , which forms a micellar solution , delivers alpha-tocopherol through the unstirred water layer to enterocytes , while free tocopherol ( alpha or gamma ) absorption requires the presence of bile salts . 
relationship between measles , malnutrition , and blindness : a prospective study in indian children . a prospective study was conducted in slum children to determine the incidence of post-measles corneal disease and to clarify its relationship with nutritional status . a total of 318 cases of measles were identified over a period of 15 mo ; maximum incidence was observed for children between 1-2 yr . most of the children showed weight loss and serum proteins decrease during the acute stage of measles . corneal lesions were observed in 3 % of the children , and the lesions responded well to treatment . serum vitamin a and rbp levels were significantly depressed during the acute stage of measles but were restored to normal 8 wk after recovery . there were no significant differences in the serum levels for those with and without eye lesions , which suggests that these lesions may not be mediated simply through the effect of infection on serum concentration of vitamin a . 
pantothenic acid status of adolescents . information on human needs for pantothenic acid is limited and no recommended daily allowance has been established , although a safe and adequate level of 4-7 mg / day has been suggested for adults and adolescents . pantothenic acid levels in urine , whole blood , and erythrocytes were determined by radioimmunoassay in 63 healthy adolescents . dietary intakes were calculated and evaluated from 4-day diet records . although 49 % of the females and 15 % of the males consumed less than 4 mg / day , average blood levels for both groups were in a normal range relative to other populations ( 411.9 + / - 102.8 ng / ml and 344.5 + / - 113.6 ng / ml , respectively ) . dietary intake was highly correlated with urinary excretion ( p less than 0.001 ) . levels of pantothenic acid in erythrocytes correlated well with dietary intake and urinary excretion . a model was developed to predict circulating levels of pantothenic acid from dietary intake and urinary excretion . 
ethnic group differences in nutritional status of young children from low-income areas of an urban county . a nutrition assessment survey was undertaken among 566 preschool children from randomly selected low income households located within an urban county . the purpose of the survey was to determine the prevalence of selected nutrition problems and to identify relationships among ethnic and economic variables and nutritional status . underweight was identified in 1.8 % , overweight in 15.4 % , and short stature in 13.1 % of children . southeast asian children had a higher prevalence of short stature than the other ethnic groups . low hemoglobin values were identified in 4.3 % , low hematocrit in 6.9 % , and elevated erythrocyte protoporphyrin in 6.0 % of children . the prevalence of elevated ep was significantly higher among southeast asian children than non-southeast asians and likely was due to iron deficiency . results of the survey suggest that southeast asian children constitute the group at highest nutritional risk in the low income areas surveyed . 
the relationship between estrogen levels and diets of caucasian american and oriental immigrant women . the relationship between diet and estrogens was studied in two groups of women with different dietary habits and breast cancer risks . plasma estrogens and androgens and 24-h urinary and fecal excretion of estrogens were measured in premenopausal and postmenopausal caucasians and recent oriental immigrants from southeast asia to hawaii . premenopausal caucasians had 30-75 % higher plasma estrone and estradiol levels than their age-matched cohorts in hawaii , and the postmenopausal caucasians had 3-fold higher plasma levels of estradiol . the oriental women excreted more than twice the amount of estrogen in their feces but they excreted significantly less in their urine . thus , the ratio of urinary-to-fecal excretion was approximately 3-5 times higher in young caucasian women . analysis of dietary components and plasma estrogens in premenopausal women showed a positive correlation between daily intake of total fat and saturated fat and plasma estrone and estradiol concentrations . 
nutritional survey of highly trained women runners . mean daily intakes from 3-day dietary records for calories , energy-providing nutrients , and selected minerals were calculated for 51 highly trained women runners . selected blood constituents relating to mineral status were also measured . intakes of calcium , magnesium , iron , and copper were above the amounts recommended by the national research council whereas zinc intake was below the recommended dietary allowances ( rda ) . caloric intakes , although above the rda for sedentary women , appeared low for women running 10 miles / day . concentrations of serum ferritin and plasma zinc were indicative of marginal iron and zinc status in many of the women . whether the nutrient content of the diets consumed by these women is adequate relative to energy output or whether training lowers nutrient requirements by enhancing metabolic efficiency will require further investigation . 
photon activation analysis as a new technique for body composition studies . a study was undertaken to demonstrate the usefulness of the recently developed photon activation analysis ( paa ) technique for in vivo body composition studies . paa can be used for direct measurement of total-body oxygen , nitrogen , and carbon . sequential measurements were made on rats fed diets of 0 % , 4.2 % , or 20 % protein for 6 1 / 2 wk , and significant changes in body composition were noted . in addition , rats of different ages , strains , nutritional states , and degrees of obesity were included in a comparison of paa results in vivo with results from chemical analysis after sacrifice of the animals . high positive correlations were found between paa measurements of carbon and chemical analysis measurements of fat and between paa measurements of oxygen and chemical analysis measurements of total-body water . a low positive correlation was found between paa measurements of nitrogen and chemical analysis measurements of protein . 
interpretations of requirements for thiamin , riboflavin , niacin-tryptophan , and vitamin e plus comments on balance studies and vitamin b-6 . data from the long-term projects sponsored by the food and nutrition board to determine the requirements for thiamin , riboflavin , niacin-tryptophan , and vitamin e are utilized to effect an opinion regarding the recommended dietary allowances for these vitamins . based upon data obtained during these and subsequent research projects , comments on balance studies , changes in tissue lipids , and the requirements for vitamin b-6 are included . the possibility that antioxidants may have an effect on delaying oncogenesis is discussed . 
the 1986 mccollum award lecture . fuel-mediated teratogenesis during early organogenesis : the effects of increased concentrations of glucose , ketones , or somatomedin inhibitor during rat embryo culture . whole rat embryos were explanted at head-fold , late pre-somite stage ( day 9.5 of gestation ) and cultured in rat sera varyingly supplemented with glucose ( 3 , 6 , 9 , or 12 mg / ml ) , d , l sodium beta-hydroxybutyrate ( 2 , 4 , 8 , or 16 mm ) , or both ( 6 mg / ml d-glucose plus 8 mm beta-hydroxybutyrate ) . during 48 h culture , increasing glucose alone or beta-hydroxybutyrate alone effected growth retardation and faulty neural and extraneural organogenesis in dose-dependent fashion . synergistic dysmorphogenic effects occurred when minimally teratogenic concentrations of glucose and beta-hydroxybutyrate were combined . sera from diabetic animals containing somatomedin inhibitor bioactivity were also able to produce growth retardation and major developmental lesions in presence of amounts of glucose and ketones which of themselves were not teratogenic . thus , aberrant fuels and fuel-related products can impair growth and organogenesis in early post-implantation embryo . such fuel-mediated teratogenesis may be multifactorial and include possibilities for synergistic and additive interactions . 
three limitations of the body mass index [ editorial ] 
colon cancer and dietary fat , phosphorus , and calcium in hawaiian-japanese men [ letter ] 
the use of cytoskeletal characteristics of tumor cells for the diagnosis of colon and breast adenocarcinomas . the cytoskeleton of colon ( 11 cases ) and breast adenocarcinomas ( 9 cases ) was characterized with the use of immunohistochemistry on tissue sections and one- and two-dimensional ( 2-d ) gel electrophoresis of cytoskeletal extracts of tumor cells . by immunofluorescence , antibodies to epidermal cytokeratin ( ck ) and mallory body ck recognized cytoplasmic filaments + / - desmosomal contacts , respectively , in both colon and breast adenocarcinomas . in addition , cytoskeletal extracts of both tumors showed similar ck polypeptides by 2-d gel electrophoresis . by immunoperoxidase , anti-actin antibody stained the apical margin of tumor cells in eight ( 73 % ) colon adenocarcinomas and four of five metastases , while diffuse cytoplasmic staining was seen in only one ( 9 % ) breast adenocarcinoma and not in five metastases . with 2-d gel electrophoresis , a cytoskeletal-associated doublet polypeptide was found in seven ( 64 % ) colon adenocarcinomas but not in the breast adenocarcinomas . by immunoblotting , the doublet did not consist of ck polypeptides , vimentin , or type iv collagen . these findings may facilitate the differentiation of colon and breast adenocarcinomas . 
characteristics of iga deposits in liver and skin of patients with liver disease . the presence of iga deposits in a continuous pattern along hepatic sinusoids is a specific entity for alcoholic liver disease . in superficial skin blood vessels of patients with liver disease , iga deposits can occur . the authors characterized the deposits for iga-subclass epitope expression and for macromolecular configuration ( assessment of [ hidden ] j-chain determinants and of secretory component-binding capacity ) . a variety of monoclonal anti-iga-subclass reagents were applied , which proved to be specific in control experiments on blastoid cells generated by pokeweed mitogen stimulation of blood mononuclear cells and frozen tissue sections of normal jejunum . iga1 is the major component in iga deposits in liver ( n = 83 ) and skin ( n = 31 ) of patients with liver disease . macromolecular iga is detectable in only one-fifth of the cases . the authors ' data do not indicate that hepatic iga deposits in liver disease are of gastrointestinal origin . out of the circulating iga pool , iga1 appears to be most capable of being deposited in tissue . 
comparison of automated and manual methods for urinalysis . the authors compared results for accuracy and precision obtained by a semiautomated prototype international remote imaging systems , inc . ( iris ) urinalysis workstation ( iuw ) with those from quantitative manual urinalysis ( qmu ) . three technologists skilled in urinalysis each performed 172 urinalyses with both the iuw and qmu methods . the results show that the iuw method is likely to yield comparable counts for particulate analytes compared with the qmu , except for casts . the qmu reported significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) more casts than the iuw method . this difference is related to at least a ninefold greater volume of untreated urine examined by the qmu method than the iuw method . the iuw method may provide a more accurate result than the qmu method at very low and high concentrations of particulate analytes . the result from 24 blind duplicate urines also analyzed by each of the three technologists with both methods showed comparable precision for particulate analytes between the two methods except for red blood cells ; the qmu method had significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) better precision for this analyte . 
management by objectives for the academic medical center . management by objectives ( mbo ) is results-oriented , participatory management , which is appropriate for the current era of keen competition for resources . mbo was installed in the author 's institution in clinical laboratory divisions meeting prerequisites and fit the system to the local management environment . the results were decidedly positive . benefits included improved communication , organizational clarity , planning for deadlines , motivation of participants , work load distribution , and productivity . projects were easier to visualize , track , and coordinate . a natural review cycle of three to four months evolved , with general review twice a year . mbo worked best with one- to two-year-long projects involving problem solving and innovation . the author expects maturity of his mbo application within three years . he recommends mbo for other academic medical center laboratories , provided executive management commits the necessary time and resources to install mbo carefully as a relatively loose , locally administered form of management philosophy , rather than management technology . 
juvenile papillomatosis ( epitheliosis ) of the breast . a clinical and pathologic study of 13 cases . the clinical and pathologic findings of 13 patients with juvenile papillomatosis ( jp ) ( epitheliosis ) of the breast are analyzed . the average age was 25 years , with a range from 15 to 42. family history of breast carcinoma was observed in 33 % . carcinoma did not develop in any patient after the diagnosis of jp . a co-existing carcinoma was present in 15 % of the patients . this study confirms that jp may be related to family history of breast carcinoma and that the patients themselves may be at increased risk for the development of cancer . a long-term follow-up for these patients and relatives is needed so that additional information and better knowledge of this entity can be obtained . 
evaluation of the coulter s-plus v three-part differential in a community hospital , including criteria for its use . the coulter s-plus v three-part differential was evaluated for its precision , correlation with 100-cell manual differentials , ability to process routine specimens without flagging , and ability to detect abnormalities as defined by manual differential . the instrument 's precision is markedly greater than that of manual methods , especially in the mononuclear category . correlation with manual differential lymphocyte , mononuclear , and granulocyte percentages was 0.91 , 0.54 , and 0.94 , respectively . eighty-four percent of routine samples could be processed by the instrument without further review . with the use of a combination of s-plus v-generated flags and preset laboratory criteria , only 9 % of abnormal manual differentials would have been undetected . three-fourths of these undetected cases involved low-frequency abnormalities of questionable clinical significance . the three-part differential should be able to decrease the number of manual differentials that are performed , which would result in a cost savings to the laboratory . 
a rapid assessment of percentage hemoglobin-s in whole blood . in an effort to bridge the gap between the rapid sickledex screening test ( ortho diagnostics , raritan , nj ) and the slow but quantitative hemoglobin electrophoresis , the authors developed a rapid method for quantification of the percentage of hemoglobin s ( % hgb-s ) in whole blood . the method involves quantification of the hemoglobin before and after removal of sodium dithionite-induced sickled cells for calculation of the % hgb-s . test results were within a +10 % range of hemoglobin electrophoresis , with 67 % of results within a +5 % range . the method , taking 30-45 minutes to perform , offers a rapid assessment of % hgb-s in acute care situations . 
a comparison of two passive agglutination procedures with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for rubella antibody status . a total of 293 sera , submitted for rubella immune status , were tested by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) and two passive agglutination procedures . the rubascan kit showed a higher agreement ( 97.6 % ) with elisa than the rubaquick kit ( 95.2 % ) . rubascan was also easier to read , especially low-positive sera . 
ascitic fluid and serum c-reactive protein concentrations in patients with and without peritonitis . seventy-five paired ascitic fluid and serum specimens were tested for c-reactive protein ( crp ) concentrations with the use of laser nephelometry . there was no clear separation of the ascitic fluid or serum values of the 19 paired specimens obtained from patients with peritonitis from the 37 paired sterile portal-hypertension-related samples or from the 19 paired miscellaneous specimens . the ascitic fluid crp concentrations of patients with sterile portal-hypertension-related ascites were not significantly different from those of infected specimens . however , the serum crp values were significantly higher in patients with peritonitis than in patients with sterile portal-hypertension-related ascites . ascitic fluid crp does not appear to be a useful indicator of ascitic fluid infection . 
parathyroid hormone ( pth ) assay of parathyroid cysts examined by fine-needle aspiration biopsy . the authors report three cases of parathyroid cysts examined by the fine-needle aspiration biopsy technic . a presumptive diagnosis of parathyroid cyst was made when characteristic water-clear fluid was aspirated . the diagnosis was then confirmed by parathyroid hormone ( pth ) assay . the authors believe that the c-terminal / midmolecule determination should be the assay of choice , because the n-terminal-specific assay gave normal or slightly elevated results in all the cases studied . if only an n-terminal-specific pth assay is obtained , potential for a false negative diagnosis exists . with a correct pth assay , a specific diagnosis of parathyroid cyst can be rendered , which enables appropriate treatment of total fluid aspiration , which thereby eliminates the need for thyroid hormone treatment or surgery in most cases . a discussion of pth assays is presented along with speculations concerning the secretion of pth by the parathyroid gland . the previous literature detailing cytologic findings and the pth assays of parathyroid cysts diagnosed by the fine-needle aspiration biopsy are reviewed . 
cancer chemotherapy-induced tubular nephrotoxicity evaluated by immunochemical determination of urinary adenosine deaminase binding protein . the authors evaluated measurements of adenosine deaminase binding protein ( adb ) , a proximal renal tubular cell antigen , for detection of drug-induced tubular nephrotoxicity . concentrations of adb were determined immunochemically in serial urine specimens from 12 children who were receiving chemotherapy for malignant solid tumors . there was no indication of increased adb excretion after administration of two nonnephrotoxic drugs , etoposide and doxorubicin , but in patients given the recognized nephrotoxins , cisplatin and methotrexate , or an investigational drug , ifosfamide , urinary concentrations of adb increased greater than fivefold relative to baseline values . increased adb concentrations preceded cisplatin- or ifosfamide-induced elevations of serum creatinine . results of the adb assay correlated well with those obtained by enzymatic assays for n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase and alanine aminopeptidase ( r = 0.76 and 0.53 ; n = 142 , p less than 0.001 ) and marginally with total proteinuria ( r = 0.21 ; p less than 0.02 ) . hence , serial adb measurements may be useful in screening investigational drugs for acute subclinical nephrotoxicity . 
comparison of dysmorphic erythrocytes with other urinary sediment parameters of renal bleeding . dysmorphic erythrocytes have been described in the urine sediment of patients with renal parenchymal bleeding . this study compares the prevalence of dysmorphic erythrocytes in 5 , 128 urine specimens with blood , erythrocytic , or fibrin casts , proteinuria , and significant numbers of exfoliated renal tubular cells ( rtcs ) . of the 510 samples containing pathologic casts , 15 % had dysmorphic erythrocytes , 60 % had proteinuria , 71 % had rtcs , and 12 % had no other urinalysis abnormality . of the 186 samples containing dysmorphic erythrocytes , 55 % had pathologic casts , 42 % had proteinuria , 71 % had rtcs , and 13 % had no other abnormality . renal hematuria can best be evaluated by examination of all four of these urinalysis abnormalities rather than using a single entity for diagnosis . patients with urinalysis evidence of renal hematuria should be evaluated further for renal disease rather than lower urinary tract disorders . 
glomerulonephritis with focal and segmental distribution of glomerular basement membrane antigen ( s ) . in this report , the authors describe a case of a 2-year , 11-month-old girl with glomerulonephritis and no family history of renal diseases and deafness . immunofluorescent studies in the renal biopsy specimens with the use of anti-sera against human glomerular basement membrane ( gbm ) and p3 antigen ( prepared from bovine gbm and inducible of steblay 's type nephritis in rats ) demonstrated focal and segmental distribution of the gbm antigen ( s ) . electron microscopic examination revealed splitting and thinning of the gbm . indirect immunofluorescence showed that there was no binding of goodpasture 's anti-gbm antibodies to the glomeruli . these findings are similar to those in patients with hereditary nephritis . the immunofluorescent examination of the fixation of the various anti-sera , including anti-types iv and v collagens , laminin , fibronectin , and actomyosin sera on the gbm , revealed normal reactivity . the abnormalities observed in this case may be a part of the spectrum of primary gbm defects . 
subcutaneous gas from hydrogen peroxide administration under pressure [ letter ] 
disappointing follow-up findings for indigent high-risk newborns . indigent populations have received little attention in neonatal follow-up studies . we conducted " blinded " evaluations one year past term for 204 indigent high-risk infants who were ventilator treated or had a very low birth weight ( vlbw ) ( less than or equal to 1500 g ) and 85 healthy term controls from families similar to those of the high-risk infants . marked developmental delay ( bayley mental developmental index , less than 70 ) or gross motor abnormality occurred in 2 % of controls , 27 % of vlbw infants , 33 % of ventilator-treated infants , and 39 % of ventilator-treated vlbw infants . despite considerable effort to prevent attrition , 43 % of high-risk survivors were unavailable for follow-up at the one-year visit . even if all of these infants were assumed to be normal , the incidence of developmental delay exceeded that in 11 of 12 recent studies . indigent high-risk infants deserve considerable follow-up attention because of their high rate of attrition and developmental delay . 
acquired undescended testes . three cases of reascent of a previously unequivocally documented descended testis have been encountered . chorionic gonadotropin treatment was initially attempted in each child and was successful in causing descent of the involved testis in one . the testes of the other two boys were successfully brought down surgically . possible causes for testicular reascent are presented and the pertinent literature is reviewed . these cases illustrate the need for continued diligence and interval examination of the pediatric scrotum throughout childhood . 
renal hypophosphatemic rickets . growth and mineral metabolism after treatment with calcitriol ( 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ) and phosphate supplementation . to delineate the mineral metabolism of renal hypophosphatemic rickets and to update progress in linear growth after calcitriol ( 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ) therapy , the medical records of 19 patients were examined retrospectively from january 1978 through december 1985. with a mean ( + / - sd ) follow-up period of 42.0 + / - 5.4 months after calcitriol had been administered for at least 12 months , the growth measurements were as follows : the percentile weight ( mean + / - sd ) remained unchanged , with the initial being 12.3 % + / - 17.3 % and the final being 15.3 % + / - 18.6 % , and the length / height percentiles were -2.7 % + / - 5.9 % and -2.4 % + / - 4.4 % . the growth velocity index showed a significant improvement from mean values of 61.7 % ( at age 2 years ) to mean values of 101.2 % ( at age 11.2 years ) . serum phosphate concentrations rose from the initial value of 2.9 + / - 0.6 to 3.5 + / - 0.8 mg / dl ( 0.9 + / - 0.2 to 1.1 + / - 0.3 mmol / l ) . the effects of calcitriol on renal function were tested by creatinine clearance values , which were 127 + / - 22 ml / min / 1.73 m2 ( 2.12 + / - 0.37 ml / s / 1.73 m2 ) at the conclusion of the study , compared with 128 + / - 25 ml / min / 1.73 m2 ( 2.13 + / - 0.41 ml / s / 1.73 m2 ) obtained at the initiation of calcitriol therapy . we conclude that calcitriol treatment of renal hypophosphatemic rickets in children results in improvement of growth velocity and serum phosphate concentration without deterioration of renal function . 
' near-miss ' sid [ letter ] 
bacterial growth in refrigerated human milk . unprocessed breast milk is currently being used as a desirable feeding alternative for premature infants . to assess some of the potential risks of this practice , we studied the bacterial growth in 41 samples of unprocessed human milk for a period of five days . no bacteria were cultured in eight samples of milk ; the bacteria that were cultured in the remaining 33 samples were similar to those found on the skin and nipple of the breast . with the exception of three samples , two with klebsiella and one with pseudomonas , all identified bacteria have been reported as normal skin flora . the initial concentration of bacteria found in milk was low , with a mean of 10 , 000 colonies ( range , 1000 to 140 , 000 colonies ) . bacterial colony counts progressively decreased throughout the five-day refrigeration period . 
training for life after residency [ letter ] 
treatment of idiopathic chronic neutropenia with high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin [ letter ] 
dysphagia lusoria [ letter ] 
pediatric social illness [ letter ] 
escalator injury in foreign countries [ letter ] 
thrombocytopenia in an infant with aids [ letter ] 
do not put hydrogen peroxide or povidone iodine into wounds ! [ editorial ] 
nuclear energy and its effect on mankind [ editorial ] 
epididymitis in children and adolescents . a 20-year retrospective study . we identified 35 patients who had epididymitis from 1965 to 1984 by hospital chart review . the common clinical presentation was swelling , pain , and erythema . twenty-two patients had onset of symptoms within 24 hours of hospital admission . surgery was performed in 31 patients , 22 of whom had cultures taken from the epididymis at the time of surgery . bacterial agents were recovered from cultures of 13 patients : coagulase-negative staphylococci were identified in nine patients . in two patients , a polymicrobic cause was found . six patients had associated urologic abnormality . three patients had concurrent urinary tract infection . urologic investigation should be undertaken in children younger than 2 years old and in older patients with recurrent episodes suspected to be due to reflux of urine and associated genitourinary abnormality . 
screening for risk factors for adolescent alcohol and drug use . while alcohol and drug abuse are widely prevalent among adolescents , screening for drug and alcohol use , abuse , and risk factors is not a routine practice in primary care pediatrics . this article presents data from a pilot investigation of an instrument for in-office screening of alcohol and drug use and abuse problems . a 42-item questionnaire was administered to two patient populations : 97 youths from a drug abuse treatment program and 206 youths from a private pediatric practice . the questionnaire successfully discriminated between the two samples and appears capable of discriminating drug and alcohol risk within the samples . this research suggests that a simple paper-and-pencil questionnaire can successfully discriminate the degree of risk of substance abuse in adolescent patient populations and that such an instrument can be successfully integrated into the routine activities of pediatric practice . 
antenatal hypoxia and low iq values . we undertook analyses to determine if fetal , intrapartum , and neonatal hypoxia are important causes of low iq values . we analyzed prospectively collected pregnancy , perinatal , and subsequent developmental data for 19 , 117 children . as expected , sociohereditary and demographic factors had a large influence on iq scores . taking these latter influences into consideration , nothing that happened during labor , delivery , or the neonatal period affected subsequent iq values . the same was true for early pregnancy disorders that can produce acute fetal hypoxia . by contrast , antenatal disorders and conditions that can produce subacute or chronic fetal hypoxia correlated with low iq values . these antenatal disorders and conditions were maternal gestational anemia , relative gestational hypotension , hypertension , multiple births , and fetal growth retardation . all of these findings were the same whether neurologic abnormalities were absent or present , suggesting that the same factors were sometimes involved in the genesis of cognitive impairments and neurologic abnormalities . 
targeted early childhood programming . the promise half fulfilled . a group of 169 children was followed up from birth to second grade in a community-based early identification and early intervention project . periodic assessments of health and function yielded profiles of concerns . over the first five years of life , 39 % of the children had health concerns , 20 % had cognitive concerns , 25 % had motor concerns , 15 % had social adjustment problems , and 12 % had early attentional problems . children at the highest risk of having reading and behavioral problems in second grade were those with early attentional disability . at the second-grade level , 31 % of the children with early attention concerns were one full grade behind in reading and 38 % had behavioral problems ; among the youngsters without early attentional concerns , 6 % demonstrated a reading delay and 8 % had behavioral problems . in addition , children of highly educated mothers were more likely to benefit from the multidisciplinary program than were children of less educated mothers , for whom the intervention effected only a modest improvement when contrasted with randomly selected comparison children . for instance , among children with early cognitive problems and whose mothers had little education , 31 % of these children had reading problems in second grade as opposed to 10 % of those whose mothers had high educational attainment . similarly , 39 % of children with the combined risks of low maternal education and early attentional problems had reading problems in second grade compared with none of the attention-problem children of highly educated mothers . this study shows that while early identification of health and developmental problems can be carried out in a community-based project , strategies for the early intervention of developmental concerns among children of low socioeconomic status remain less than completely effective . 
the choice of place of delivery . effect of hospital level on mortality in all singleton births in new york city . in an analysis of all singleton births and neonatal deaths with known birth weights and gestational ages in new york city maternity services during a three-year period ( 1976 to 1978 ) , intensive care services at the hospital of birth were found to influence mortality only in preterm ( less than 37 weeks ' gestation ) or low-birth-weight infants ( less than 2251 g ) . by contrast , for infants who were born at term and of normal birth weight , mortality rates did not differ by level of perinatal care available at the hospital of birth . on the average , preterm and low-birth-weight infants were at a 24 % higher risk of death if birth occurred outside of a level 3 center , regardless of whether birth occurred at a level 1 or level 2 hospital . preterm and low-birth-weight infants , though constituting only 12 % of births , accounted for 70 % of neonatal deaths in new york city . the remaining infants , ie , those born at term and of normal birth weight , who experienced no measurable mortality advantage when born in a level 3 hospital , accounted for 88 % of all births . 
federally supported primary care training programs and pediatric careers . 
fluoride supplements . changes in physicians ' attitudes and practices following an intensive , multifaceted educational program . results of a 1981 survey of randomly selected primary care physicians with pediatric patients were compared with the results of a similar survey conducted in 1978. in general , the 1981 survey respondents were more knowledgeable on the subject of fluoride and dental caries , had more positive attitudes about the effectiveness of fluoride supplementation , were more likely to prescribe fluoride supplements , and more closely followed the current guidelines for appropriate use of fluoride supplements . an intensive , multifaceted educational program on fluoride and childhood dental caries sponsored by the wayne state university school of medicine , detroit , which started shortly after the first survey , may have contributed to these changes . 
tracheal stenosis . lethal malformation in two infants of diabetic mothers . in two infants of diabetic mothers , severe respiratory distress developed at birth and the infants died shortly thereafter . autopsy revealed tracheal stenosis and significant cardiac abnormalities . 
birth weight , respiratory distress syndrome , and cognitive development . a four-year follow-up of preterm infants . this study examined the relationship of respiratory distress syndrome ( rds ) and birth weight to cognitive development in 30 white , middle-class , low-birth-weight , preterm infants . cognitive ability was assessed at 12 , 36 , and 48 months of age . no significant difference was found at any age between children who had and did not have rds during the neonatal period . children with birth weights of 1500 g or less were found to have lower scores than those with birth weights greater than 1500 g in the first year of life . however , the difference diminished with increasing age . 
sublingual administration of desmopressin . effectiveness in an infant with holoprosencephaly and central diabetes insipidus . a 3-month-old child with bilateral cleft lip and palate and holoprosencephaly was hospitalized after he developed diabetes insipidus presumably due to hypothalamic dysfunction . he was initially treated with subcutaneous vasopressin injection but was switched to therapy with desmopressin acetate ( ddavp ) before discharge . because of his abnormal nasopharyngeal anatomy , we decided to administer the desmopressin acetate sublingually , and this was effective . a single daily dose of 2 micrograms ( 0.4 microgram / kg ) resulted in a prompt antidiuresis , and the effect gradually lessened over a 24-hour period . serum electrolyte values were restored to normal and have remained normal after three months of treatment . after additional study , the sublingual route might be considered for the administration of small-polypeptide therapeutic agents when other routes are impractical . 
radiological case of the month . thoracoomphalopagus twins with big omphalocele . 
right ventricular cardiac dysfunction in beta-thalassemia major . in patients with iron overload associated with severe , transfusion-dependent beta-thalassemia , congestive heart failure develops during the second decade of life . biventricular heart function was studied by multigated radionuclide angiography in 22 patients with beta-thalassemia major . six patients were symptomatic . congestive heart failure developed in five patients at the time of blood transfusions , and one other patient had been treated for multiple ventricular extrasystole . the mean ( + / - sd ) left ventricular ejection fraction was normal ( 63.0 % + / - 7.6 % ) . only one patient had a left ventricular ejection fraction under the normal level ( less than 50 % ) . the mean ( + / - sd ) right ventricular fraction ( rvef ) was 33.3 % + / - 9.4 % . in only three patients was the rvef normal ( greater than or equal to 40 % ) ; an rvef under 30 % was registered in six patients . we suggest that the early right ventricular dysfunction in patients with beta-thalassemia may be due to pulmonary hypertension secondary to iron overload and iron deposits in the ventricles . 
phenobarbital increases the theophylline requirement of premature infants being treated for apnea . to determine the effect of phenobarbital sodium therapy and subependymal intraventricular hemorrhage ( sep-ivh ) on the theophylline requirement of premature infants suffering with apnea and seizure activity , we compared three groups of patients as follows : group 1 , those with apnea of prematurity ( ten patients ) ; group 2 , those with apnea and sep-ivh ( ten patients ) ; and group 3 , those with apnea , sep-ivh , and seizure activity for which they were receiving phenobarbital therapy ( nine patients ) . patients in groups 1 and 2 required lower dosages and blood levels of theophylline to control their apnea than did those in group 3 , who required higher dosages and blood levels of methylxanthines . theophylline dosages and blood levels did not significantly differ between groups 1 and 2. in group 3 , the theophylline requirement for control of apnea was significantly increased after initiation of phenobarbital therapy . there seems to be a direct correlation between the increased requirement for theophylline and concomitant phenobarbital administration . the data suggest that phenobarbital increases theophylline requirement when treating neonatal apnea . 
new roles for forensic pathologists [ editorial ] 
clinical forensic medicine . this article discusses the merits of participation by medical examiners in the area of clinical forensic medicine . the present connotation that we deal after the fact should be abandoned with enhanced involvement in assisting the living . the paper focuses on a broad range of categories where forensic scientists by virtue of their training and experience could be most helpful in the application of medical knowledge to the solution of questions of law . 
new observations on cutaneous firearm wounds . the authors describe the aspect of the dermal surface in firearm wounds . in entrance wounds , the abraded area is rather evident , with loss of the papillary pattern and lacerations of the basement membrane . exit wounds appear as irregularly lacerated interruptions , with protruding collagen fibers ; the surrounding dermis has nearly undamaged papillae . also described , still on the dermal surface , are the flame effect and the powder tattooing . evident lesions of the basement membrane , produced by the grains of powder , can be observed . particles [ gunshot residues ( gsr ) ] are often recognizable lying on the dermal surface or entrapped among the collagen fibers of the superficial dermis . 
nail-gun injuries . accident , homicide , or suicide ? it may be difficult to distinguish industrial accidents from suicide attempts or even assaults or homicide . nail guns are relatively new industrial tools that can produce severe or fatal injuries . the configuration of the nail on patients ' radiographs after such injuries can be helpful in determining the cause of injury . steel nails that are bent are due to a ricochet and thus indicate accidental injury . straight-nail injuries to the co-workers of nail-gun users are most likely due to over-penetration of the substance being nailed or accidental mid-air firing ; however , intentional injury cannot be ruled out . extremity injuries caused by straight steel nails in nail gun users are the result of carelessness or poor technique , but suicide should be considered when straight nails cause wounds to the chest , head , or abdomen . 
forensic diagnosis coding and retrieval by microcomputer . a system is described for coding of anatomic--including forensic--pathologic diagnoses from necropsy cases using a microcomputer . the snomed software from the college of american pathologists is utilized . ram-disk software is employed to enhance the speed of operation of the system . the microcomputer can be operated by clerical staff versed in medical terminology . speed of entry and retrieval , with minimal manual interaction , is an important aspect of operation . equipment and storage costs are minimal . 
computer-aided skull / face superimposition . by use of a special optical device coupled with a tv camera to match a skull and a photograph of a face , superimposition for the purpose of personal identification was performed in controlled situations . a computer-aided method to evaluate the fit of the superimposition has been outlined by means of an original shape analytical morphometry ( sam ) software package yielding analytical descriptions by kth-order poly-nominal equations and fourier harmonic analysis . the match was carried out by using point-cross error and sum of differences for the fourier set amplitude . a final comprehensive evaluation exhibited marked differences between congruent and noncongruent superimpositions . 
identification by identi-kit composite from skull appearance . combined efforts of the anthropologist , forensic pathologist , and criminal investigators . it is always difficult to succeed in identifying skeletal remains unless one has good anthropological , dental , and investigative support . this case adds a new dimension , involving a law enforcement expert who was skilled with the use of the identi-kit . the picture of the victim , as developed by the identi-kit expert with the recommendation and support of the anthropologist , was shown on a television news program and was identified within 15 min of the show by a relative as the likeness of a missing 17-year-old black girl who was last seen months before . the combined expertise was instrumental in identifying a person who otherwise would have been recorded as another " jane doe . " 
repeat autopsies on corpses from abroad . a futile effort ? a large number of corpses transferred to athens and the piraeus morgue from abroad have been examined in second autopsies . lack of information , mistakes in data , useless effort , and disappointment on the part of the forensic pathologists because of the lack of new information revealed are characteristic of these cases . with some exceptions , the second autopsy provided no news for the anxious relatives , who , for the most part , had been prompted by their attorneys or other " well-meaning friends " to demand a second autopsy on the corpses of their loved one ( who generally died on board ship abroad ) . nevertheless , in 10 of 59 cases , the cause of death was completely different from the determined in the autopsy performed abroad or assumed from the information available . this fact ensures that any corpse from abroad undergoes a careful and thorough examination on its arrival in greece . 
teaching , research , and the practice of legal medicine in italy . with special attention to the evaluation of living cases . 
pathology of paint sniffers ' lung . deliberate inhalation of metallic paint results in hemorrhagic alveolitis and the intra-alveolar and lymph node accumulation of particulate-laden macrophages . we present a case of a chronic paint sniffer that illustrates these respiratory tract findings . 
forensic pathology--catch 22. a no-win situation ( ? ) . the practice of forensic pathology finds itself in the unenviable position of existing in a political environment , the existence of which depends upon compromise . the professional pathologist cannot compromise ethically , morally , or legally . as a practical fact of life , most of us find ourselves in the compromising position and with the compromising attitude of " you get what you pay for . " the end result all too often is tragedy for those who depend on our observations , our conclusions , our practice of medicine . what has not been widely recognized apparently is the all too common consequence of the personal jeopardy that the forensic pathologist is placed in--defenseless , friendless , disgraced , and left with a severely tarnished professional reputation . 
the influence of expert witnesses on the sentence . a case report with notes on the medical and forensic expert 's responsibility . 
fatal malignant hyperthermia associated with recreational cocaine and ethanol abuse . malignant hyperthermia is an often lethal hypermetabolic crisis state precipitated by a variety of pharmacological and environmental triggers in genetically susceptible persons . the present report documents , by medical history and necropsy , a fatal malignant hyperthermic crisis in a 20-year-old man after an evening of recreational cocaine and ethanol abuse . 
an unusual shotgun injury pattern produced by an intermediate target . discharge of a shotgun with a shotgun casing in its muzzle as a " dust cover " produced a pattern of injuries suggestive of combined intermediate- and distant-range wounds . 
unusual blunt force wound produced by a gun muzzle . most blunt force injuries produced by guns are associated with gun butts , and patterned , muzzle / sight impressions are usually produced by discharging firearms . an unusual and distinct forehead laceration produced by a blow with the muzzle end of a .32 caliber revolver is presented . 
masturbation injury resulting from intraurethral introduction of spaghetti . a singular case of masturbation by endourethral introduction of a piece of spaghetti is reported . we became aware of the case because fragmentation of the spaghetti caused a cicatricial stenosis of the urethra that required surgical treatment . 
herniation of the heart . a death following intrapericardial pneumonectomy . a case is presented involving a patient who underwent an intrapericardial pneumonectomy for lung cancer and died of cerebral hypoxia due to herniation of the heart . the etiology and pathophysiology of cardiac herniation are reviewed . 
sudden death resulting from chicken bone perforation of the esophagus . sudden death caused by foreign-body perforation of the esophagus is distinctly uncommon . we report the death of an elderly patient in a nursing home who exsanguinated after she swallowed a chicken bone that perforated her esophagus and right common carotid artery . 
national safety council 's committee on alcohol and drugs [ letter ] 
a case of fluoride poisoning [ letter ] 
liver disease in toxemia of pregnancy . this study reviews liver disease in toxemia of pregnancy based on 102 cases submitted to the armed forces institute of pathology . the common clinical features were right upper quadrant and epigastric pain , nausea , vomiting , and elevation of the serum transaminases . jaundice occasionally developed . these occurred in severe preeclampsia or eclampsia and their cause was usually recognized . however , hepatic symptoms and signs did result in inappropriate diagnoses and misdirected therapy . such confusion occurred when these were the initial problems confronting the clinician in women presenting with advanced toxemia due to poor prenatal care . they were also likely to be misleading when other more classic parameters , such as blood pressure and proteinuria , were only midly abnormal . central nervous system complications were the common cause of death but liver disease could be partially or wholly responsible . extensive periportal lesions , hepatic hematomas , spontaneous rupture , and infarction all contributed to hepatic injury and to morbidity . fibrin deposition , hemorrhage , or both in the periportal areas was characteristic of the histopathology . scanning electron microscopy validated this spectrum of change . a toxemic vasculopathy related to severe vasospasm in the hepatic arterial circulation may be responsible . 
hepatic disorders in the acquired immune deficiency syndrome : a clinical and pathological study . we reviewed the clinical data , hepatic histology , and microbiological features of 21 patients with previously documented acquired immune deficiency syndrome who had liver biopsies . diagnoses of specific infections were made on liver biopsy in 11 / 21 patients ( 57 % ) . granulomas were found in 10 / 21 patients ( 48 % ) and were most often a manifestation of infection with mycobacterium avium-intracellulare . elevated levels of serum alkaline phosphatase and longer duration of diagnosed illness were significantly associated with the presence of granulomatous disease . 
gastric heterotopia of the proximal esophagus : a report of four cases detected by endoscopy and review of literature . 
comparison of percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy with surgical gastrostomy at a community hospital [ published erratum appears in am j gastroenterol 1987 jun ; 82 ( 6 ) : 591 ] the results of percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomies in 100 patients in a community hospital were compared with those of surgically placed gastrostomies in 50 patients . the morbidity rate for the percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy group was 4 % , compared with 30 % for the patients with surgically placed gastrostomies . the procedure-related mortality for percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy was 1 % , compared with 16 % for surgically placed gastrostomies . patients admitted to the hospital for percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy stayed an average of 4 days compared with 10 days for the surgical patients ; 14 patients had the percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy performed as an outpatient procedure . there were no complications in this group , suggesting that percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy can be safely performed as an outpatient . in this community hospital , percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy was both substantially safer and far less expensive than surgically placed gastrostomy . 
sulfur amino acid metabolism in chronic relapsing pancreatitis . sulfur amino acid ( saa ) metabolism was studied in patients with chronic relapsing pancreatitis ( crp ) before and during treatment and compared with results from patients with uncomplicated cholelithiasis , before and after surgery , receiving an identical nutritional support . crp resulted in decreased total sulfur and inorganic sulfate excretions . although the nutritional therapy per se accentuated these results , a reduced ability to convert saas to inorganic sulfate was seen during the whole investigation . initially , crp patients showed a raised serum concentration of inorganic sulfate , implicating an altered renal handling of the compound . increased outputs of saas , n-acetylcysteine and mercaptolactate were seen in crp patients parallel to a raised leukocyte methionine level , probably a consequence of the catabolic state and a limited utilization of saas . during therapy a normalization was achieved . reduced total and free glutathione concentrations in leukocytes were found in crp , and it was more pronounced for the free form . this result could be due to a reduced synthesis and increased intracellular oxidation of glutathione as a result of the decrease in ethanol . 
gastric anisakiasis : report of a case with clinical , endoscopic , and histological findings . a case of gastric anisakiasis in a 45-yr-old oriental woman who had eaten fresh , raw salmon is reported . this is the second case of gastric anisakiasis reported in the united states . the clinical course , endoscopic features , and histological findings are described . with the increased popularity of japanese restaurants and sushi bars in the united states , the incidence of anisakiasis can be expected to increase . clinicians and pathologists should be aware of this unusual parasitic infestation in this country . 
chronic parietal cell dysfunction after reversal of gastric bypass . a middle-aged woman developed a postgastric bypass megaloblastic anemia which responded to treatment . she eventually had the bypass reversed 6 1 / 2 yr after it had been performed . gastric parietal cell function has remained abnormal almost 3 yr after reversal of the bypass , as demonstrated by abnormal schilling tests and high serum gastrin levels . parietal cell antibodies in high titer , but no intrinsic factor antibodies , were demonstrated in her blood . these observations are interpreted as indicating the development of irreversible chronic atrophic gastritis probably related to reflux of bile into the bypassed stomach . 
antral varices . varices of the gastric fundus , often associated with esophageal varices , are a common complication of portal hypertension or splenic vein occlusion . however , varices of the gastric antrum have been reported rarely . we describe a 61-yr-old man with antral and esophageal varices caused by portal hypertension due to hepatic cirrhosis . 
splenic vein thrombosis as a consequence of chronic pancreatitis : a study of three cases . splenic vein obstruction was found in three patients with chronic pancreatitis . all had suffered epigastric pain , but no specific findings which suggested obstruction of the splenic vein were evident on physical or laboratory examinations . enlarged pancreatic contour with calculi and pseudocyst formation were observed by cat scan in all three cases . gastric varices were found in two patients who had episodes of gastric bleeding . the splenic vein was shown to be occluded in two patients in the venous phase of celiac angiography and was entirely nonvisualized by percutaneous portography in the third case . the first patient underwent elective surgery , while the second patient had emergency surgery due to intraabdominal abscess formation with gastric bleeding . the surgical procedure in both patients was splenectomy coupled with distal pancreatectomy . thrombus formation was confirmed by venous dissection at surgery . 
management of oral-gastric lavage tube impaction of the esophagus . oral-gastric lavage is an important tool in the management of oral toxic ingestions . an unusual complication of the impaction of the oral-gastric tube in the esophagus is described . this is the first report of the use of flexible endoscopy in the management of the complication . 
eosinophilic enteritis associated with chronic eosinophilic pneumonia . a case of eosinophilic pneumonia and eosinophilic infiltration of the small bowel and colon is reported . the patient presented with nonspecific chest and abdominal symptoms , and lack of response to therapy for presumed pneumonia . further investigation including lung , muscle , and gastrointestinal tract biopsies revealed eosinophilic infiltration of the lung and gastrointestinal tract , an association that does not appear to have been previously documented . 
adenomyomatous hamartoma of the small intestine : a rare cause of intussusception in an adult . a case of small intestinal obstruction in an 82-yr-old woman caused by an ileoileal intussusception is reported . at the leading point of the intussusceptum an adenomyomatous hamartoma was found . in a review of the literature we were unable to find a similar case . 
actinomycosis at multiple colonic sites . a case of actinomycosis affecting multiple sites in the colon , masquerading as diverticulitis , is presented . final diagnosis was delayed until a tuboovarian abscess developed that required resection and was found to contain sulfur granules . bacteriology , pathophysiology , and antibiotic treatment of abdominal actinomycosis is discussed . difficulties in diagnosis are mentioned . 
takayasu 's arteritis and ulcerative colitis . this report describes a case of takayasu 's disease and ulcerative colitis occurring simultaneously in a 35-yr-old sri lankan woman . it is suggested that these two diseases may be immunologically related and the possible pathogenic mechanisms by which these two disorders may be associated are discussed . 
the liver in preeclampsia / eclampsia : the tip of the iceberg [ editorial ] 
a case of meclofenamate sodium-induced colitis [ letter ] 
hypophosphatemia and idiopathic pancreatitis [ letter ] 
drug-induced nephrotoxicity : an international symposium . antwerp , belgium , september 27-28 , 1985. 
the role of cell calcium overload in nephrotoxic renal tubular cell injury . data on the role of cell ca++ overload in the pathogenesis of nephrotoxic renal tubular injury and methodologic considerations for studying this process were reviewed . it was concluded that : a consistent pattern of ca++ uptake and resultant functional changes are attributable to the interactions of ca++ with mitochondria during their isolation , unless specific measures are taken to prevent these interactions . the simplest approach to prevent in vitro ca++ from occurring during isolation of mitochondria from injured tissues having high ca++ levels is to include ruthenium red in the homogenizing solution used to prepare the mitochondria , although this will still permit some surface binding of ca++ to mitochondria . by comparing mitochondrial ca++ levels and functional parameters of mitochondria isolated after in vivo nephrotoxic injury with those of control mitochondria isolated at similar homogenate ca++ levels , the components of mitochondrial ca++ overload and functional deterioration solely attributable to in vivo events can be identified . these were detailed for gentamicin- and mercuric chloride-induced nephrotoxicity . tissue and mitochondrial ca++ overload are relatively late events during the development of renal tubule cell injury secondary to aminoglycosides or to mercuric chloride , occurring only when lethal cell injury is present by morphologic criteria . since it correlates with lethal cell injury , the presence of tissue ca++ overload can be of value in assessing this process , but care must be exercised in drawing conclusions about the extent of lethal cell injury , because the degree of ca++ overload can be modified by factors , such as saline intake , independently of changes in the number of lethally injured cells . 
modification of experimental aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity . some of the factors that modify experimental aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity are reviewed . maneuvers ready to be tested for effectiveness in the clinical use of these drugs are highlighted . the use of concomitant penicillins and changes in dosing strategy seem to be particularly exciting new leads toward elimination of clinical aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity . 
the effect of dosing strategy on kidney cortical accumulation of aminoglycosides in rats . the influence of three different dosage schedules on kidney cortical accumulation of aminoglycosides was studied in rats . a daily dose of 10 mg / kg of gentamicin or tobramycin or 33.3 mg / kg of amikacin were given , either in single injections , three injections eight hours apart , or by continuous infusion . kidney cortical levels of aminoglycosides were examined at regular intervals up to eight days . the pattern for cortical accumulation under different dose regimens was drug-dependent . continuous infusion of gentamicin resulted in remarkably higher cortical concentrations than after intermittent administrations . in contrast , cortical levels of tobramycin were independent of the regimen used . for amikacin , higher accumulation resulted from continuous administration from the second day . however , the differences in tissue levels after one or the other dose regimen were less striking than for gentamicin . these observations were explained by differences in cortical uptake kinetics for aminoglycosides previously reported . elevations in serum concentrations of gentamicin were associated with nonlinear uptake . accordingly , uptake of gentamicin is more " efficient " at low serum concentrations . uptake of tobramycin was linearly related to increases in serum levels . amikacin showed a mixed kinetics pattern , saturation at low serum levels , and linear kinetics at high serum concentrations . this explains the higher cortical levels reached with continuous infusion of amikacin compared with intermittent administration . uptake kinetics play an essential role in cortical aminoglycoside concentrations achieved after different dosing strategies . the design of regimens minimizing cortical uptake may decrease the risk of nephrotoxicity . 
renal cortical uptake kinetics of gentamicin in rats with impaired renal function . the renal cortical uptake kinetics of the aminoglycoside antibiotic gentamicin was determined in the remnant kidney model . renal failure was induced by partial ablation of the right kidney followed by left nephrectomy in female wistar rats . the animals received a six-hour gentamicin infusion at a constant rate yielding steady-state serum concentrations ranging from 0.5 to 150 micrograms / ml . the renal cortical gentamicin concentrations were determined and related to the serum concentrations achieved . this relationship was nonlinear and followed michaelis-menten kinetics . gentamicin cortical uptake rate , however , did not show clear saturation in the range of gentamicin serum levels studied as was observed in rats with normal renal function . the michaelis-menten parameters determined by nonlinear regression were km = 15.0 , 73.9 , and 135.7 micrograms / ml ; and vmax = 149.9 , 213.7 , and 239.2 micrograms / g cortex / h , respectively , for controls , rats with serum creatinine levels between 0.9 and 1.2 mg / dl , and those with levels between 1.3 and 1.8 mg / dl . it is concluded that at serum levels below 100 micrograms / ml , the gentamicin renal cortical uptake is diminished in rats with renal failure . this decrease in renal cortical uptake is more pronounced in the group of rats with more severe renal failure . 
cyclosporine nephrotoxicity in rats with an acute reduction of renal function . the early interactive nephrotoxicity of cyclosporine was studied in rats immediately after either unilateral nephrectomy or a combination of temporary renal ischemia and contralateral nephrectomy . cyclosporine was administered intramuscularly ( im ) for 4 weeks . in comparison to vehicle-treated animals , the rats receiving cyclosporine showed neither the compensatory increase in glomerular filtration rate after unilateral nephrectomy nor the recovery of function after renal ischemia . it is concluded that cyclosporine interferes with the normal compensatory response resulting from an acute loss of renal function . this could be due to an interaction with renal hemodynamics or hormonal factors mediating the compensatory renal response . 
renal blood flow , glomerular filtration rate , and renal morphology in cyclosporine-induced acute renal failure in munich-wistar rats . the mechanism of clinical cyclosporine nephrotoxicity has remained unclear . we have established an animal model of cyclosporine-induced acute renal failure in the male munich-wistar rat by giving four daily doses of parenteral cyclosporine 60 mg / kg intraperitoneally ( ip ) . in this model , 20 minutes of bilateral renal ischemia preceding the first cyclosporine dose did not significantly increase the renal failure , but did increase mortality ( 65 % v 17 % ) , which was due in part to the cns effect of cyclosporine . pair-fed and pair-watered vehicle and saline controls were used . the renal morphologic changes induced by the castor oil vehicle of the commercial parenteral cyclosporine solution were quantitatively similar to those induced by cyclosporine , although the severity of the changes by light microscopy was considerably less in the vehicle-treated groups . however , by electron microscopy , pale lipid vacuoles were seen only in the cyclosporine-treated groups , whereas dense alterations in lysosomes and dilated endoplasmic reticulum were also seen in other groups . renal blood flow determined by electromagnetic flow probe showed a significant decline during 2 hours after a single ip injection of cyclosporine ( 6.6 + / - 0.4 to 5.0 + / - 0.6 ml / min ) . a similar decline was seen following injection of the castor oil vehicle of the commercial cyclosporine parenteral preparation ( 6.6 + / - 0.5 to 5.1 + / - 0.5 ml / min ) , but not after an injection of a similar volume of mineral oil ( 6.7 + / - 0.3 to 6.3 + / - 0.2 ml / min ) . these studies suggest that brief renal ischemia does not increase cyclosporine nephrotoxicity significantly in this rat model . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
benefits and risks of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs in steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome . in this paper we discuss the effects of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs on proteinuria and the specific risks of these drugs in patients with nephrotic syndrome . we summarize the results of a prospective uncontrolled trial of meclofenamate in severe steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome secondary to focal glomerular sclerosis and idiopathic membranous nephropathy . this study examined the effect of meclofenamate on proteinuria , serum albumin levels , serum cholesterol , serum triglycerides , renal function , bp , liver function tests , and hematologic values . we also sought and evaluated adverse reactions due to this medication . we offer some suggestions for selective use and careful supervision of nsaids in the nephrotic syndrome . 
the incidence and gene frequency of ataxia-telangiectasia in the united states . ataxia-telangiectasia ( a-t ) is an autosomal recessive neurological syndrome of considerable interest because homozygotes are highly predisposed to cancer . vigorous casefinding in the united states in 1970-72 and 1980-84 identified 231 white , 29 black , and three oriental a-t cases that provide information about the incidence and gene frequency of a-t . white patients identified in this study were born at the rate of 3.0 per million live births in the u.s. in the years 1965-69 . the highest observed incidence was in the state of michigan for 1965-69 , where identified white a-t patients were born at the rate of 11.3 per million births . based on the incidence data , the minimum frequency of a single hypothetical a-t gene in the u.s. white population was estimated to be .0017 . pedigree analysis , which estimates the gene frequency from the proportion of affected close blood relatives of homozygous probands , estimated the most likely gene frequency to be .007 on the assumption that a-t is a single homogeneous genetic syndrome , with 95 % confidence limits of .0012-.02 . given that complementation analysis has demonstrated the genetic heterogeneity of a-t , the a-t heterozygote frequency will probably fall between 0.68 % and 7.7 % , with 2.8 % being the most likely estimate . 
segregation analysis of cleft lip with or without cleft palate : a comparison of danish and japanese data . the genetic basis of cleft lip with or without cleft palate [ cl ( p ) ] remains unresolved . the controversy on the role of a major gene is confounded with possible population differences . this study examines the issue of population differences by comparing two contrasting populations : caucasians and japanese . japanese are known to have higher population incidence of cl ( p ) and yet lower recurrence risks among relatives . the study subjects consist of 2 , 998 nuclear families of the danish population and 627 families of the japanese population . the uniformly coded data were subjected to complex segregation analysis based on the mixed model . the analysis has revealed that the danish data can be best explained by a combination of major gene action and multifactorial inheritance . the best-fitting model is characterized by recessive gene with displacement effect ( t ) of 2.7 in the standardized unit and gene frequency of .035 . the heritability is estimated as .97 . the transmission probability of aa----a for the major gene is consistent with 1 / 2. on the contrary , the japanese data can be best accounted for only by multifactorial inheritance with the heritability estimate of .77 . no major heterogeneity could be detected between subsets of the data within the populations as grouped by types of ascertainment or mating . it is thus concluded that the observed inconsistency between the two populations is explained by a significant role of major gene in the caucasian population , but not in the japanese population . 
chromatid repulsion associated with roberts / sc phocomelia syndrome is reduced in malignant cells and not expressed in interspecies somatic-cell hybrids . different cell types from a female patient with roberts / sc phocomelia syndrome were evaluated quantitatively for the presence of repulsion of heterochromatin and satellite regions of mitotic chromosomes . whereas ebv-transformed lymphoblasts from an established cell line revealed these phenomena at frequencies equal to those in pha-stimulated lymphocytes and cultured skin fibroblasts , aneuploid cells from a metastatic melanoma displayed them at 50 % lower frequency . cocultivation of the patient 's fibroblasts with either an immortal chinese hamster cell line or with a human male fibroblast strain carrying a t ( 4 ; 6 ) ( p14 ; q21 ) translocation showed that the phenomenon was not corrected or induced by a diffusible factor or by cell-to-cell contact . in each experiment , only the patient 's metaphase spreads revealed chromatid repulsion . in fusion hybrids between the patient 's fibroblasts and an established chinese hamster cell line , the human chromosomes behaved perfectly normally , suggesting that the gene product which is missing or mutant in roberts / sc phocomelia syndrome is supplied by the chinese hamster genome . 
molecular basis for hbh disease in italy : geographical distribution of deletional and nondeletional alpha-thalassemia haplotypes . we have investigated the molecular basis for hbh disease in 16 patients from sardinia , and central and southern italy . we have shown that hbh disease is produced by the interaction of at least 10 different deletional or nondeletional alpha-thalassemia haplotypes , some of which have been already described in the mediterranean area ( --med , - ( alpha ) 20.5 , -alpha 3.7 type i , -alpha 3.7 type ii , alpha 2 ncoi alpha 1 , alpha 2 hphi alpha 1 ) . among the new mutations found in the course of our study , there is a complete deletion of the zeta-alpha cluster and three nondeletional determinants ( alpha alpha t ) , affecting to various extents alpha-globin gene expression . the different alpha-thalassemia haplotypes are not evenly distributed throughout the country . two alpha 0 determinants [ - ( alpha ) 20.5 and the complete deletion of the zeta-alpha cluster ] and four alpha + determinants ( -alpha 3.7 type ii , three nondeletional alpha alpha t mutations ) are found exclusively in southern italy . 
hla-dependent gm effects in insulin-dependent diabetes : evidence from pairs of affected siblings . in a recent study of gm allotype frequencies in hla-defined subsets of patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) and similarly defined healthy sibling controls , we found evidence for an hla-dependent gm effect on iddm susceptibility . to circumvent problems inherent in such patient-control studies of complex diseases , we have now examined sharing of genes in the hla and gm regions in 26 informative pairs of siblings who were both affected with iddm . we found that : ( 1 ) in the total sample of affected sib-pairs , sharing of two hla haplotypes was increased compared to mendelian expectations , in agreement with many previous studies ; ( 2 ) in the total sample , sharing of gm region genes ( as measured by gm phenotype concordance ) was not different from mendelian expectations , given the distribution of parental mating types ; and ( 3 ) affected sib-pairs who shared two hla haplotypes showed significantly increased sharing of gm region genes compared to affected sib-pairs who shared one or zero hla haplotypes ( p = .018 ) . these results provide new evidence for hla-dependent effects of a locus at or near gm on susceptibility to iddm . 
paternal age and the occurrence of birth defects . the association between paternal age and the occurrence of birth defects was studied using data collected in metropolitan atlanta . paternal-age information for babies born with defects was obtained from birth certificates , hospital records , and interviews with mothers ; for babies born without defects , the information was obtained from birth certificates . several statistical techniques were used to evaluate the paternal-age-birth-defects associations for 86 groups of defects . logistic regression analysis that controlled for maternal age and race indicated that older fathers had a somewhat higher risk for having babies with defects , when all types of defects were combined ; an equivalent association for older mothers was not found . logistic regression analyses also indicated modestly higher risks for older fathers for having babies with ventricular septal defects and atrial septal defects and substantially higher risks for having babies with defects classified in the category chondrodystrophy ( largely sporadic achondroplasia ) and babies with situs inversus . an association between elevated paternal age and situs inversus has not been reported before ; the magnitude of the estimated increased risk for situs inversus was about the same as that found in this study for chondrodystrophy . 
high molecular weight dna from fixed cytogenetic preparations . cell pellets that have been stored in routine clinical cytogenetic fixative were studied for the presence of intact dna . a method for the isolation of high molecular weight dna from fixed cytogenetic preparations of human leukocytes , bone marrow , and cell hybrid cultures is presented . dna preparations from fixed pellets were cleaved with restriction enzymes , transferred to nitrocellulose filters after agarose gel electrophoresis , and hybridized to radiolabeled probes to demonstrate that fixed cell pellets could yield dna of sufficient quality for southern blot hybridization analysis . this protocol may be useful for molecular analysis of dna from fixed cell pellets of patients who are unavailable for additional sampling . 
some fallacious thinking about the paternity index : comments [ letter ] 
piroxicam : a clinical perspective . proceedings of a symposium . february 22 , 1986 , new york , new york . 
an evaluation of spontaneous adverse drug reaction monitoring systems . the food and drug administration maintains an adverse drug reaction reporting system . physicians report suspected adverse reactions that occur while a patient is taking a drug ; reporting is voluntary and spontaneous . data from spontaneous adverse drug reaction reporting systems are designed to signal that rare , unsuspected adverse reactions exist as a result of using a specific drug . problems arise when attempts are made to use such data for other purposes . specifically , spontaneous adverse drug reaction data , such as those published by the food and drug administration , are inappropriate for calculating actual adverse drug reaction rates for specific drugs or for making safety comparisons among drugs . this is because these data are subject to numerous biases that can be easily identified and described but not easily corrected . as a result , data from spontaneous adverse drug reaction reporting systems bear little relationship to the actual incidence of adverse drug reactions . 
nonpigmented endometriosis : clinical , laparoscopic , and pathologic definition . we describe the morphologic characteristics and clinical importance of peritoneal lesions that have the histologic features of endometriosis but are devoid of the pigmented stigmas typical of this disease . a total of 137 laparoscopic biopsy specimens were taken of nonpigmented peritoneal lesions in 77 patients , among whom 70 were infertile . seventy-three biopsy specimens showed endometrium-like glands and stroma , and another 12 showed only endometrioid stroma ; no such histologic features of endometriosis were present in 10 biopsy specimens of normal uterosacral ligament peritoneum ( p = 0.005 , fisher 's test ) . nonpigmented lesions that were commonly endometriotic were : white opacified peritoneum ( endometriosis in 81 % of n = 52 biopsy specimens ) , red flamelike lesions ( 81 % of n = 16 ) , and glandular lesions ( resembling endometrium at hysteroscopy ) ( 67 % of n = 21 ) . lesions that were sometimes endometriotic were : subovarian adhesions ( 50 % of n = 4 ) , yellow-brown peritoneal patches ( 47 % of n = 19 ) , and circular peritoneal defects ( 45 % of n = 11 ) . however , thickened cribriform peritoneum usually was not endometriotic ( 9 % of n = 11 ) and vesicular excrescences were , in every case , reactions to oil-based salpingographic medium ( n = 5 ) . six patients underwent another laparoscopy within 6 to 24 months and each had developed pigmented endometriotic lesions in previously nonpigmented but abnormal areas . visualization of pigment is not necessary to diagnose endometriosis , and definition of its early , nonpigmented appearance keeps the clinical category of " unexplained infertility " exclusive . 
an analysis of the characteristics of the electromyogram recorded from the mesometrium in the ovariectomized nonpregnant ewe and its similarities with and differences from the electromyogram obtained from the myometrium : the effect of estrogens . mesometrial and myometrial electromyograms have been recorded from ovariectomized nonpregnant ewes . after infusion with saline solution , the frequency of electromyographic events lasting less than 180 seconds in the myometrium was not different from the frequency of their occurrence in the mesometrium . during infusion of estradiol at 100 micrograms / 24 hours , the frequency of events less than 180 seconds increased significantly in the myometrium but was unchanged in the mesometrium . contracture activity ( electromyographic events lasting more than 180 seconds ) was significantly greater in the mesometrium than in the myometrium before estradiol administration . during estradiol infusion , contracture activity remained unchanged . these findings suggest that the mesometrial muscle may be a useful model to study the effects of various stimulators and inhibitors of uterine muscle function in the absence of stretch and local paracrine effects that occur in the uterus itself . 
hemodynamic effects of caval and uterine venous occlusion in pregnant sheep . in chronically instrumented pregnant ewes we studied the systemic , uterine , and fetal effects of increased uterine venous pressure with and without simultaneous changes in cardiac output , by occluding either the inferior vena cava or both uterine veins . increased uterine venous pressure with no reduction in venous return of blood to the heart resulted in a reflex increase in arterial blood pressure . infrarenal obstruction of the inferior vena cava resulted in a moderate reduction in venous return and cardiac output with no change in arterial blood pressure , while suprarenal obstruction of the inferior vena cava caused a major decrease in cardiac output as well as in arterial pressure . uterine blood flow varied in proportion with perfusion pressure at all levels of obstruction . uterine oxygen consumption and fetal oxygenation only decreased with suprarenal obstruction of the inferior vena cava , when uterine blood flow fell more than 50 % . 
substrate utilization for estrogen synthesis by human fetal membranes and decidua . we have investigated the ability of tissue explants of human amnion , chorion , and decidua to produce estrone when incubated alone or in the presence of estrone sulfate , dehydroepiandrosterone , dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate , androstenedione , or testosterone . amnion produced very little estrone from any substrate . chorion utilized all substrates and decidua utilized estrone sulfate and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate for estrone production . for both chorion and decidua , estrone sulfate was quantitatively the most important substrate . chorionic tissues obtained after spontaneous labor produced greater levels of estrone than tissues obtained before labor ( p less than 0.05 ) . we could demonstrate no effect of cortisol , estriol , progesterone , prostaglandins , oxytocin , or dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate on estrogen production . we also measured endogenous concentrations of estrone and estradiol in fetal membranes . we found no significant difference in tissue concentrations between the two methods of delivery . there was no significant correlation between estrone and estradiol concentrations and distance from the placenta . we conclude that human chorion and decidua can produce estrogen , which may have some role in determining the timing of parturition . 
circadian rhythm and diurnal excursion of plasma cortisol in diabetic pregnant women . the effect of type i and ii diabetes in pregnancy on the circadian rhythm and diurnal excursion of plasma cortisol was studied in the second and third trimesters and post partum . cosignor analysis demonstrated persistence during gestation of the significant circadian rhythm of the nonpregnant state . as previously reported in control pregnancies , plasma cortisol levels ( 24-hour mean , nadir , peak , and nadir-peak excursion ) increased during gestation while the relative excursion of cortisol ( expressed as the percent deviation from the 24-hour mean ) was blunted . no significant difference was found between diabetic groups or when diabetic groups were compared with control subjects . nocturnal hypoglycemia was common among diabetic women during pregnancy and post partum . although these episodes were usually asymptomatic , the mean concomitant cortisol levels were increased over the corresponding cortisol levels of nonhypoglycemic diabetic and control subjects . we conclude that differences between control and type i and ii diabetic subjects in carbohydrate tolerance or glycemic excursion are not explained by differences in cortisol levels or rhythm . the pregnancy-associated blunting of the excursion of cortisol is consistent with an autonomous source of adrenocorticotropin . asymptomatic nocturnal hypoglycemia is common in insulin-requiring diabetic women and is associated with increased cortisol secretion . 
effect of fetal and maternal intravascular antipyrine infusion on maternal plasma prostaglandin concentrations in the pregnant sheep at 104 to 127 days ' gestation . antipyrine is commonly used to measure umbilical and uterine blood flow in the pregnant sheep . in the present experiment we investigated the effect of antipyrine on prostaglandin metabolism . four pregnant ewes at 104 to 127 days ' gestation were infused with either 1 , 4 , or 15 mg of antipyrine per minute via the fetal jugular vein . the 15 mg x min-1 dose was also infused into the maternal jugular vein in a fourth experiment . prostaglandins in the uterine vein draining the pregnant horn were measured by radioimmunoassay and antipyrine by high-performance liquid chromatography . no change in the concentrations of either 13 , 14-dihydro-15-keto-prostaglandin f2 alpha or 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha was observed with infusion of antipyrine at 1 mg x min-1 . the 4 and 15 mg x min-1 infusion rates into the fetal jugular vein induced a significant decrease ( p less than 0.05 ) in maternal uterine vein 13 , 14-dihydro-15-keto-prostaglandin f2 alpha plasma concentrations . these concentrations decreased from 669.3 + / - 161.3 pg x ml-1 ( mean + / - sd ) before infusion to 306.5 + / - 104.0 pg x ml-1 after 3 hours of infusion at 4 mg x min-1 and from 744.2 + / - 256.8 to 105.0 + / - 24.2 pg x ml-1 at 15 mg x min-1 . significant changes in maternal uterine vein plasma 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha and the 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha / 13 , 14-dihydro-15-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha ratio occurred only at the 15 mg x min-1 infusion of antipyrine into the fetal jugular vein ( p less than 0.05 ) . maternal uterine vein 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha fell from 86.0 + / - 31.6 to 37.0 + / - 11.5 pg x ml-1 and the 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha / 13 , 14-dihydro-15-keto-prostaglandin f2 alpha ratio rose from 0.14 + / - 0.10 to 0.35 + / - 0.10 . we conclude that : antipyrine at doses currently used to measure uterine and umbilical blood flows inhibits 13 , 14-dihydro-15-keto-prostaglandin f2 alpha production and infusion rates of antipyrine less than 1 mg x min-1 probably do not affect maternal prostaglandin metabolism . we therefore recommend that if this method is to be used for measuring blood flow , antipyrine infusion rates should be less than 1 mg x min-1 . 
adhesion formation and uterine tube healing in the rabbit : a controlled study of the effect of ibuprofen and flurbiprofen . to determine if the prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors ibuprofen and flurbiprofen can suppress postoperative adhesion formation , new zealand white rabbits that had uterine tubal ligation underwent uterine tube reanastomosis and were given either saline solution ( controls ) , 75 mg of ibuprofen intravenously every 6 hours , or 12.5 mg of flurbiprofen intravenously every 6 hours for 8 doses after operation . both ibuprofen and flurbiprofen significantly reduced postoperative adhesions ( p less than 0.025 ) . with histologic indices of tissue reunion , ibuprofen and flurbiprofen were associated with significantly less scar thickness than controls ( p less than 0.001 ) but did not have any significant effect on mucosal regeneration , foreign body reaction , and muscularis disruption . when all four histologic indices were compared , flurbiprofen but not ibuprofen had a significantly lower score than controls , indicating the greater potency of flurbiprofen over ibuprofen . our findings show that ibuprofen and flurbiprofen can suppress perioperative and postoperative surgically induced inflammatory response associated with healing and thereby reduce adhesion formation and scar thickness . 
electrical and mechanical uterine activity and gap junctions in estrogen-treated oophorectomized sheep . the effects of a single dose ( 0.1 mg ) of 17 beta-estradiol on myometrial electrical activity , intrauterine pressure , and myometrial gap junctions were studied in six chronically instrumented oophorectomized ewes . the intrauterine pressure cycles were analyzed for the maximum rate of rise , peak pressure , and active pressure area , together with the frequency of the cycles and the burst frequency , and related to the gap junction area . 17 beta-estradiol temporarily depressed uterine activity . the period of quiescence was followed by a pronounced increase in all variables of electrical and mechanical activity and also by a rise in gap junction area . the greatest increase in the maximum rate of rise of the intrauterine pressure cycles occurred 24 hours after estrogen and was associated with the maximum increase in gap junction area . these results indicate that a single dose of 17 beta-estradiol induces formation of myometrial gap junctions , which may facilitate the spread of electrical activity over the myometrium and improve coordination of uterine contractility . 
progesterone and relaxin secretion in relation to the ultrastructure of human luteal cells in culture : effects of human chorionic gonadotropin . this report describes the first study to correlate the ultrastructure of long-term monolayer cultures of human luteal cells with their secretion of relaxin and progesterone under basal and human chorionic gonadotropin-stimulated conditions . in culture from 14 to 28 days , cells from both corpora lutea of the menstrual cycle and corpora lutea of pregnancy took on characteristics of granulosa luteal cells , particularly after exposure to human chorionic gonadotropin . relaxin was detectable in the luteal cell cultures only at early time points . the effect of human chorionic gonadotropin on media relaxin levels differed in cells of the cycle and cells of pregnancy . in the cells of the cycle , relaxin was detectable only on day 2 and was decreased by human chorionic gonadotropin ( p less than 0.01 ) . in cells of pregnancy , relaxin was detectable for the first 4 days of culture and was not affected by human chorionic gonadotropin . progesterone was detectable in all the luteal cell cultures and was enhanced by human chorionic gonadotropin ( 10 and 50 iu / ml ) after 24 days of exposure . at earlier time points in both the luteal cells of the cycle and the luteal cells of pregnancy , the human chorionic gonadotropin-induced increases in progesterone levels were not as consistent . however , in all cases of progesterone enhancement , smooth-surfaced endoplasmic reticulum was increased in the human chorionic gonadotropin-treated cells compared with corresponding controls , consistent with more active steroid production . in addition , gap junctions , considered to be responsive to trophic hormones , were increased in the treated cells . in conclusion , this long-term monolayer culture of human luteal cells , as monitored by ultrastructural and hormonal changes , retained the differentiated function of progesterone secretion and exhibited responsiveness to human chorionic gonadotropin . therefore , morphologic and functional aspects of progesterone secretion may be investigated more closely with use of this long-term luteal cell culture system . 
effects of clomiphene citrate on cytosolic estradiol and progesterone receptor concentrations in secretory endometrium . cytosolic estradiol and progesterone receptor concentrations were measured in luteal phase endometrial biopsy samples obtained from 12 anovulatory or oligoovulatory women on clomiphene citrate therapy and from 40 normal control subjects . clomiphene citrate treatment ( 250 to 750 mg per cycle ) decreased both endometrial estradiol and progesterone receptor concentrations . estradiol receptor levels were nondetectable in seven tissue samples and progesterone receptor levels in four samples from the 12 subjects given clomiphene citrate compared to nondetectable estradiol receptor concentrations in one tissue sample and progesterone receptor concentrations in two samples from the 40 normal control subjects . in histologically dated endometrium , mean estradiol receptor concentrations on days 20 to 23 and progesterone receptor levels on days to 24 to 27 were lower than the values observed in the comparable dated endometrium of normal ovulatory women . steroid receptor concentrations correlated negatively with the duration of clomiphene citrate therapy , which implies a time-dependent suppressive effect of clomiphene citrate on measurable cytosolic estradiol and progesterone receptor concentrations during the luteal phase of the cycle . 
effects of vibratory acoustic stimulation on human fetal breathing and gross fetal body movements near term . twenty-five pregnant women between 36 and 40 weeks ' gestational age were studied to examine effects of a 5-second external vibratory acoustic stimulus on fetal breathing and gross fetal body movement patterns . when the study period was compared with the control period , there was an immediate significant decrease in the incidence of fetal breathing movements that persisted for 1 hour after the stimulus . moreover the fetal breathing pattern was more irregular for the hour after the stimulus . there was also a significant but delayed increase in the incidence of gross fetal body movements that persisted for 1 hour after the stimulus . we hypothesize that an external vibratory acoustic stimulus causes a change from a state of sleep to a state of wakefulness in near-term healthy fetuses . 
experimental hypertension in pregnant sheep . iii . central hemodynamic alterations in the one-kidney model . experimental renal hypertension , with use of the one-kidney , one-clip model , was produced in nine pregnant ewes who were then studied during the last one third of gestation . the animals were chronically instrumented for the recording of arterial pressure , heart rate , and cardiac output ; blood volume was determined weekly . the studies were carried out in four phases ; a control period of 2 weeks , a surgery period of 1 week , a constriction or hypertensive period , and a postpartum period of 2 weeks . we detected no significant changes in heart rate or cardiac output during any phase of the study . the arterial pressure significantly increased during the constriction and postpartum phases ( p less than 0.05 ) . blood volume remained relatively stable during the three pregnancy phases but significantly decreased in the postpartum phase ( p less than 0.05 ) . systemic vascular resistance followed a pattern similar to that of the arterial pressure . 
effects of cryopreservation on the viability and fertilizability of unfertilized hamster oocytes . to examine the effects of cryopreservation on unfertilized oocytes , oocytes were collected from hamsters after injection of 25 iu of pregnant mare serum gonadotropin and 50 iu of human chorionic gonadotropin . oocytes were placed in french straws containing hepes-buffered tyrode 's medium and 2 mol / l of dimethyl sulfoxide at room temperature ( method 1 ) or at 0 degree c ( method 2 ) . they were cooled to -6 degrees c at a rate of -2 degrees c / min ( method 1 ) or at -0.5 degree c / min ( method 2 ) . the freezing rate was -0.3 degree c / min to a temperature of -80 degrees c , and then it was plunged to -196 degrees c . after thawing 1 to 21 days later at 8 degrees c / min , 52 % ( method 1 ) and 64 % ( method 2 ) of the oocytes showed normal morphologic features , 87 % ( method 1 ) and 89 % ( method 2 ) were viable by trypan blue staining , and 56 % ( method 1 ) and 59 % ( method 2 ) were viable by fluorescein diacetate staining . comparable values for freshly collected oocytes were 95 % , 100 % , and 100 % , respectively . frozen-thawed oocytes were fertilized in vitro at a level of 26 % ( 17 / 66 ) compared with 76 % ( 51 / 67 ) for freshly collected controls . when the penetration rate of human spermatozoa was examined , frozen-thawed oocytes were penetrated at about one third of the fresh controls ( 14 % or 18 / 129 compared to 42 % in method 1 and 22 % or 21 / 95 compared to 58 % in method 2 ) . the ability of oocytes to tolerate storage at -196 degrees c could be important in regard to various genetic studies , supply for hamster egg penetration assay , and cryopreservation of human oocytes . 
the effect of estrogen-progestin treatment on opioid control of gonadotropin and prolactin secretion in postmenopausal women . naloxone ( 10 mg ) was given intravenously to seven postmenopausal women not receiving hormone treatment and to six postmenopausal women receiving premarin-provera treatment during the premarin phase and also during the premarin-provera phase of therapy . baseline estrone and estradiol levels ( mean + / - sem ) were significantly lower in the group not receiving hormones ( 46.0 + / - 5.2 pg / ml and 28.4 + / - 3.1 pg / ml , respectively ) than in the group in the premarin phase of therapy ( 154 + / - 14 pg / ml and 79 + / - 13 pg / ml ) and the group in the premarin-provera phase ( 135.1 + / - 8.3 pg / ml and 57.5 + / - 3.0 pg / ml ) ( p less than 0.005 ) . follicle-stimulating hormone , luteinizing hormone , and prolactin levels were 118.7 + / - 5.3 miu / ml , 118.7 + / - 9.5 miu / ml , and 9.2 + / - 0.7 ng / ml , respectively , with no significant change after naloxone administration in untreated women . with hormone therapy the basal follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone levels decreased significantly while basal plasma estrone and estradiol increased significantly . in both the group in the premarin phase of therapy and the group in the premarin-provera phase , luteinizing hormone levels increased significantly at 30 ( 135 % + / - 10 % , 144 % + / - 8 % ) , 45 ( 150 % + / - 12 % , 133 % + / - 11 % ) , 60 ( 149 % + / - 15 % , 128 % + / - 11 % ) , and 90 ( 139 % + / - 15 % , 132 % + / - 13 % ) minutes after naloxone administration ( p less than 0.01 to p less than 0.001 ) . follicle-stimulating hormone levels did not change significantly whereas prolactin levels showed a trend toward a decrease . these findings indicate that opioid inhibition of gonadotropins is reduced in postmenopausal women but increased with premarin-provera treatment . the effect of sex steroid on the opioid system in the postmenopausal women differs from that in the premenopausal women . 
hormones and cervical ripening : dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate , estradiol , estriol , and progesterone . fetal adrenal steroids have been shown to be important in the timing of parturition . since dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate is converted to estrogen , which is important in cervical softening , levels of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate together with those of estradiol , estriol , and progesterone were measured and compared in pregnant women undergoing induction of labor with ripe and unripe uterine cervices . while there were no differences between the levels of estradiol , estriol and progesterone in the two groups of women , dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate was significantly elevated in the group of women with ripe cervices . these findings suggest that cervical changes preceding the onset of labor are associated with a significant elevation of maternal dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels . changes in maternal plasma estradiol , estriol , and progesterone levels do not appear to be clinically related to cervical ripeness . 
diminished respiratory sinus arrhythmia in asphyxiated term infants . spectral analysis techniques were used to quantitate the association between respiration and heart rate variability in eight healthy and eight asphyxiated infants born at term gestation . respiratory sinus arrhythmia was demonstrated in all healthy infants . this arrhythmia was significantly diminished in asphyxiated newborn infants . we conclude that newborn infants with low apgar scores have a reduced respiratory sinus arrhythmia and that this reduction could account for the loss of short-term heart rate variability commonly associated with asphyxia . 
comparative evaluation of antepartum and postpartum platelet function in smokers and nonsmokers . platelet aggregation was analyzed during normal pregnancy by evaluation of the same patient cohort ( n = 19 ) on two separate prenatal visits and at 4 weeks post partum . to analyze platelet aggregation five different parameters were evaluated in platelet-rich plasma and whole blood ( by impedance aggregometry ) with the use of four different aggregating agents : adenosine diphosphate , collagen , sodium arachidonate , and epinephrine . plasma levels of beta-thromboglobulin , thromboxane b2 , and 1 , 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha were also analyzed . platelet counts rose 19 % after delivery . plasma levels of beta-thromboglobulin and thromboxane b2 were not significantly changed during the two antepartum visits , but b-thromboglobulin levels were modestly elevated post partum . levels of 1 , 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha decreased significantly from a mean of 125 pg / ml before delivery to 50 pg / ml post partum . all antepartum parameters on whole blood aggregation that were significantly different from postpartum values showed enhanced antepartum reactivity . in platelet-rich plasma , pregnancy was associated with greater platelet reactivity except for two variables , time to half-maximal aggregation for epinephrine and the extent of aggregation by collagen , both noted during the first antepartum evaluation . when the patient cohort of 19 was subdivided according to smoking status , all aggregation parameters of significance ( p less than 0.05 ) demonstrated increased platelet reactivity during pregnancy compared with postpartum values . smoking women accounted for a disproportionate number of significantly enhanced reactivity ( seven variables versus three ) . 
responsiveness of human carcinoma cells of gynecologic origin to 1 , 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol . in responsive tissues the induction of 25-hydroxycholecalciferol 24-hydroxylase activity is a marker of 1 , 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol action . in this study we investigated the responsiveness of various malignant cells , which were derived from carcinomas of gynecologic origin , to 1 , 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol ; we did so because it has been demonstrated that replication of certain malignant human cells that are 1 , 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol-responsive is inhibited by treatment with this substance . we found that 1 , 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol treatment caused an increase in 25-hydroxycholecalciferol 24-hydroxylase activity in gynecologic carcinoma cells that were maintained in monolayer culture . the cells were established from ovarian , endometrial , cervical , and vaginal neoplasms . after treatment with 1 , 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol ( 10 nmol / l ) for 18 hours , the specific activity of 25-hydroxycholecalciferol 24-hydroxylase increased between 2 , 4- and 49-fold in these cells . this increase in 25-hydroxycholecalciferol 24-hydroxylase activity is suggestive that certain gynecologic malignancies are responsive to 1 , 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol . we also found , however , that 1 , 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol did not act to decrease the rate of replication of these cells ; indeed in ovarian adenocarcinoma cells , 1 , 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol caused a decrease in doubling time ; in the other cells of this study , there was no effect of 1 , 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol on cell replication . 
pregnancy-induced changes in resistance blood vessels . this study was designed to examine the effect of reproductive status on the basic mechanical properties of resistance size blood vessels . the hypothesis to be tested was that pregnancy is associated with alterations in both the passive and active properties of blood vessels small enough to be major determinants of peripheral vasculature resistance . third-order arteries ( 165 microns in diameter ) from the mesenteric arcade of the rat were removed at all three stages of gestation and the four stages of the estrous cycle . these were placed in a specially designed myograph system in which their active and passive tension-internal circumference characteristics were measured . pregnancy was found to be associated with a decrease in stiffness of these vessels and a reduction in contractile ability by 20 days ' gestation . 
pregnancy after treatment in patients with prolactinoma : operation versus bromocriptine . prolactinoma was diagnosed in 190 women of the same age range , among whom 88 were treated with transsphenoidal microadenectomy and 102 with bromocriptine . the purpose of this study was to compare the two groups according to classification of the adenomas by size and invasiveness , pregnancy rates , prolactin levels after pregnancy , sella turcica changes after pregnancy , and serum prolactin levels and radiologic changes in patients who were operated on but did not become pregnant or did not desire pregnancy . in the group with operation , 91 % of patients who had microadenoma and 88 % of those with diffuse adenoma conceived , but none who had invasive tumors did so . in the bromocriptine-treated group , among patients with no visible microadenoma or with microadenoma seen radiologically 56 % conceived ; among those with diffuse adenoma 66 % conceived ; no patients with invasive adenoma were in this group . in the group with operation , 21 % had higher serum prolactin levels and amenorrhea after pregnancy , compared with 19 % in the medical treatment group and 19 % in the group with operation who did not conceive . of all patients studied , radiologic changes in the pituitary fossa were seen in only one patient undergoing operation . 
maternal estradiol response to alterations in uteroplacental blood flow . low levels of maternal estrogens are commonly regarded as indicators of fetal stress . we continuously monitored distal aortic blood flow by flowmeter , fetal heart rate , and amniotic fluid pressure in seven pregnant baboons near term . four of the animals received a constant intravenous infusion of [ 7-3h ] dehydroepiandrosterone and [ 4-14c ] estradiol for 270 minutes . a 50 % reduction in mean distal aortic blood flow was imposed after 60 minutes by means of partial occlusion of the aorta with a snare device and released at 180 minutes . blood was collected at 10-minute intervals from 30 to 60 minutes , 120 to 180 minutes , and 240 to 270 minutes . concentrations of dehydroepiandrosterone , dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate , estradiol , and cortisol in maternal plasma were determined by radioimmunoassay . metabolic clearance rates of dehydroepiandrosterone and estradiol were calculated from plasma concentrations of [ 3h ] dehydroepiandrosterone and [ 14c ] estradiol . there was no significant change in maternal levels of dehydroepiandrosterone , dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate , or cortisol with alterations in distal aortic blood flow . three animals exhibited no fetal heart rate evidence of fetal stress ; estradiol levels declined during occlusion and returned toward control after release of the snare . four animals exhibited repetitive late decelerations under conditions of reduced flow ; estradiol was unchanged or rose slightly during occlusion but increased three- to 10-fold after release whereas the metabolic clearance rate of both dehydroepiandrosterone and estradiol remained stable . we conclude that placental hypoperfusion without fetal stress results in decreased conversion of aromatizable substrate and elevated maternal estradiol levels during acute hypoxemic fetal stress probably represent increased production of fetal androgen . 
forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in fetal and adult rabbit myocardial membranes . it has previously been reported that there is an increase in the concentration of myocardial beta-adrenergic receptors as well as an increase in the sensitivity of adenylate cyclase stimulation by l-isoproterenol in fetal rabbit myocardial membranes from 21 to 31 days ' gestation . to investigate whether a change in the catalytic component of the beta-adrenergic receptor-adenylate cyclase complex is responsible for the observed increase in adenylate cyclase activity , i have measured the latter in the presence of forskolin and manganese chloride , compounds that can directly stimulate the catalytic component . myocardial membranes were obtained from fetal rabbits at 21 , 28 , and 31 days ' gestation and from pregnant adult animals . there was an increase in basal adenylate cyclase activity from the fetal to the adult stage . the percent of maximal stimulation by l-isoproterenol in fetuses from 21 through 28 to 31 days ' gestation and in the adult animal . however , although forskolin was the most potent stimulator of adenylate cyclase , the degree of stimulation was equivalent in all groups tested . similar results were obtained with manganese chloride . we conclude that the catalytic component of the beta-adrenergic receptor-adenylate cyclase complex in myocardial membranes is stimulated to an equivalent degree at all gestational ages in fetal and adult rabbits and shows no maturational changes . 
plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone and cortisol and adrenal blood flow during sustained hypoxemia in fetal sheep . we examined the effect of sustained hypoxemia with progressive acidemia on pituitary-adrenal endocrine function ( adrenocorticotropic hormone , cortisol ) and on adrenal blood flow in fetal sheep . hypoxemia was induced by the maternal sheep breathing a gas mixture containing 9 % oxygen , with 3 % carbon dioxide added . induced hypoxemia resulted in a progressive fetal metabolic acidosis but with little change in maternal ph . during induced hypoxemia there was little change in maternal plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone or cortisol level . fetal adrenocorticotropic hormone and cortisol increased to peak values within 2.8 hours of induced hypoxia but by 7.2 hours had begun to fall to values that were not significantly different from those at 1.4 hours . fetal adrenal blood flow ( microsphere technique ) also increased significantly and remained elevated throughout the duration ( 7.2 hours ) of hypoxemia . the maximum fetal adrenal blood flow achieved during hypoxemia was significantly correlated with the basal ( prehypoxemia ) flow to the adrenals . we conclude that the changes in fetal adrenocorticotropic hormone , cortisol , and adrenal blood flow seen in short-term hypoxemia are reproduced during sustained hypoxemia with acidemia . furthermore , the noted rise in the fetal adrenocorticotropic hormone level may be an important factor contributing to the increase in adrenal blood flow during hypoxemia . 
renal effects of ovine fetal arginine vasopressin secretion in response to maternal hyperosmolality . acute increases in maternal plasma osmolality can increase amniotic fluid osmolality . amniotic fluid is primarily derived from fetal urine production , and arginine vasopressin infusion can affect both fetal urine production and amniotic fluid osmolality . to assess the effect of short-term changes in maternal osmolality on fetal arginine vasopressin secretion and renal function , six ewes of 126 + / - 1 days ' gestation received intravenous infusions of 20 % mannitol ( 500 ml / 10 min ) . in response to mannitol infusion , both maternal and fetal plasma osmolality increased significantly ( 302 + / - 3 to 326 + / - 2 and 300 + / - 1 to 309 + / - 2 mosm , respectively ) . increased fetal plasma and urine arginine vasopressin concentrations were associated with significant increases in fetal urine osmolality ( 146 + / - 12 to 262 + / - 30 mosm ) and sodium concentration ( 35.8 + / - 2.8 to 76.5 + / - 20 mu eq / ml ) , but fetal urine production rates did not change ( 0.68 + / - 0.11 to 0.62 + / - 0.15 ml / min ) . these conclusions were reached : acute increases in maternal osmolality can affect fetal arginine vasopressin secretion ; arginine vasopressin-induced increases in fetal urine osmolality may contribute to increased amniotic fluid osmolality in response to maternal hyperosmolality . 
acetaminophen pharmacokinetics : comparison between pregnant and nonpregnant women . acetaminophen is the most commonly taken drug during pregnancy , but knowledge about its absorption and disposition is lacking . six healthy women volunteered to ingest a standard 1000 mg dose at 36 weeks ' gestation and 6 weeks post partum . mean maternal serum concentrations of acetaminophen were consistently less than but not significantly different from the postpartum values . the mean half-life of acetaminophen during pregnancy ( 3.7 hours ) was not significantly different from the nonpregnant value ( 3.1 hours ) . the maximum plasma concentration occurred at 0.8 hours and was 20.8 + / - 6.9 micrograms / ml during pregnancy and 23.7 + / - 6.0 micrograms / ml in the nonpregnant state . the absorption , metabolism , and renal clearance of acetaminophen were unchanged . the decrease in the mean area under the curve during pregnancy may be explained by the increase in volume of distribution of acetaminophen . potentially hepatotoxic metabolites were not measurable in the maternal serum . we conclude that the absorption and disposition of acetaminophen , when used in a standard oral dose , are not affected by pregnancy . 
use of ritodrine , terbutaline , and magnesium sulfate in preterm labor [ letter ] 
mechanism of amnioinfusion [ letter ] 
amnioinfusion for fetal distress [ letter ] 
electronic fetal monitoring [ letter ] 
influence of hla-dr phenotype and myopia on the risk of nonproliferative and proliferative diabetic retinopathy . the relationship between hla-dr phenotype , refractive error , and risk of both nonproliferative and proliferative diabetic retinopathy was studied among 227 insulin-dependent diabetics participating in a case-control study of diabetic retinopathy . in the absence of myopia , risk of both proliferative and nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy was increased for hla-dr phenotypes 4 / 0 , 3 / 0 , and x / x ( hla susceptible ) compared to hla-dr phenotypes 3 / 4 , 3 / x , and 4 / x ( hla nonsusceptible ) . odds ratios equalled 11.8 and 7.4 respectively . in the presence of myopia this increased risk associated with hla status was abolished . myopia decreased the risk of proliferative and nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy among hla-susceptible individuals , odds ratio equalled .09 and .09 , but had no protective influence among hla-nonsusceptible individuals . 
demonstration of herpes group virus in acute retinal necrosis syndrome . tissue for pathologic examination was obtained from three cases of acute retinal necrosis syndrome . virus particles belonging to the herpesvirus family were demonstrated in retinal biopsies from two patients , one of whom was immunosuppressed . despite removal of large biopsy specimens , the retina has remained attached for 20 months postoperatively in one case and for three months in the other . in a third patient with acquired immune deficiency syndrome , the clinical course and postmortem immunopathology were suggestive of a herpes simplex virus infection , initially affecting the retina and subsequently the optic nerves , chiasm , tracts , and central nervous system . these cases illustrate that the virus associated with the acute retinal necrosis syndrome is easily demonstrable using vitrectomy and endoretinal biopsy in the acute phase of the disease , but may be difficult to demonstrate in chronically detached atrophic retinas . 
vitrectomy for advanced stages of retinopathy of prematurity . we did a retrospective review of the consecutive vitrectomies for traction retinal detachment associated with retinopathy of prematurity performed at our institution . fifty-eight eyes were operated on in 46 patients at less than 1 year of age , including 12 eyes with partial retinal detachments and 46 eyes with total retinal detachments . only patients with at least six months follow-up were considered for success . twenty-five eyes ( 43 % ) were anatomically reattached . factors associated with good anatomic outcome included greater mean preoperative pupillary dilation , absence of posterior synechiae , deep anterior chamber , partial detachment or open-funnel total detachment configuration , and adequate posterior membrane removal . of the 25 eyes with attached retinas , 11 had fixing and following visual acuities or better . three eyes with attached retinas had no light perception and 11 eyes with attached retinas had light perception only . to maximize anatomic and functional results we emphasize the need to operate early , when the retinal funnel is still open . 
experimental transvitreal cyanoacrylate retinopexy through silicone oil . we evaluated the use of transvitreal cyanoacrylate retinopexy in the treatment of experimental rhegmatogenous retinal detachment during vitreous surgery in rabbit eyes filled with silicone oil . the view to the fundus was superior to that obtained in our previous model of cyanoacrylate retinopexy in the air-filled eye . glue delivery was consequently both easier and more precise through silicone oil relative to air . the chorioretinal adhesions produced with cyanoacrylate tissue adhesive were compared with those produced by transscleral retinal cryopexy and were found to be more rapid in onset as well as stronger . an exaggerated tissue response adjacent to the cyanoacrylate site suggested a potential toxic chemical or thermal reaction , or both , to the tissue adhesive , but there was no evidence of any distant ocular effects . 
the spectra , classification , and rationale of ultraviolet-protective intraocular lenses . i measured the spectral transmittance of 16 implantable intraocular lenses from 12 manufacturers and examined the rationale for using ultraviolet-absorptive intraocular lenses to protect pseudophakic individuals from photic retinopathy . each ultraviolet-protective lens was classified by the wavelength at which its spectral transmittance fell to 10 % in the blue or ultraviolet region of the spectrum . current ultraviolet-protective intraocular lenses differ in the effectiveness of their protection against photic retinopathy , and product descriptions may be misleading . 
features of a syndrome with congenital cataract and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . we studied 12 patients from six unrelated families with a syndrome that has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance and can be diagnosed from clinical , histologic , and biochemical characteristics . the four major symptoms are congenital cataract , hypertrophic cardiomyopathy , mitochondrial myopathy of voluntary muscles , and exercise-related lactic acidosis . the patients had bilateral and total cataract in the first weeks of life , underwent cataract surgery , and developed nystagmus and strabismus . corrected visual acuity was lower than 20 / 40 in aphakic eyes . patients were mentally normal , and at school age they visited a school for blind and visually impaired children . the majority of the patients developed axial myopia with myopic fundus changes ; aphakic refraction usually was lower than 10.0 diopters after the first decade . the cardiac myopathy was progressive and the cause of premature death . three of the 12 patients died in the neonatal period and six patients died in early adulthood . 
open-angle glaucoma associated with vitreous humor filling the anterior chamber . we studied the diagnostic features of vitreous humor filling the anterior chamber in open-angle glaucoma in one patient who developed this phenomenon several years after an intracapsular cataract extraction . in two other patients , vitreous filled the anterior chamber after ocular trauma . these patients had markedly increased intraocular pressures that responded poorly to medical therapy . follow-up of at least one year with each of our patients suggests that with vitrectomy they have done well . 
ocular neuromyotonia after radiation therapy [ published erratum appears in am j ophthalmol 1987 feb 15 ; 103 ( 2 ) : 253 ] ocular neuromyotonia is a paroxysmal monocular deviation that results from spasm of eye muscles secondary to spontaneous discharges from third , fourth , or sixth nerve axons . we observed this rare disorder in four patients who had been treated with radiation for tumors in the region of the sella turcica and cavernous sinus . based on these cases and four others identified in the literature it would appear that radiation predisposes to a cranial neuropathy in which ocular neuromyotonia may be the major manifestation . radiation appears to be the most common cause of ocular neuromyotonia . 
types and frequency of lesions of the caruncle . we reviewed 57 consecutive biopsies of lesions of the caruncle seen in the wills eye hospital pathology department from 1977 through 1985. the types and relative frequency of excised caruncular lesions were recorded and correlation of pathologic diagnosis with preoperative clinical diagnosis , age , and sex was made . squamous papillomas accounted for 18 ( 32 % ) and nevi for 14 ( 24 % ) of all caruncular masses . pyogenic granulomas accounted for five ( 9 % ) , epithelial inclusion cysts for four ( 7 % ) , chronic inflammation for four ( 7 % ) , and oncocytomas for two ( 4 % ) of all caruncular masses . of the 57 cases only three ( 5 % ) were malignant tumors . 
time-limited board certification [ editorial ] 
vitreous hemorrhage and sleep apnea . 
fluorescein-conjugated lectin identification of a case of human keratomycosis . 
chlamydial infection producing keratoconjunctivitis of the corneoscleral limbus . 
blepharoptosis after radial keratotomy . 
congenital absence of the lacrimal gland . 
the prevalence of macular drusen in postmortem eyes [ letter ] 
contact lens complications : incidental or epidemic ? [ letter ] 
surgical vitrectomy for pseudophakic malignant glaucoma [ letter ] 
clinicopathologic study of hematic cysts of the orbit [ letter ] 
immunohistochemical study of mononuclear phagocyte antigens in giant cell tumor of bone . the cytogenesis of giant cell tumor of bone ( gct ) was assessed by immunohistochemical methods . three gct were analyzed by a sensitive immunoalkaline phosphatase technique with a panel of monoclonal antibodies , including eight reacting with separate antigens previously found to be present on mononuclear phagocytes ( mps ) and one specific for the endothelial marker , coagulation factor 8. among the mp-associated antigens evaluated were leukocyte common antigen ( lca ) , hla-dr , c3b receptor , and c3bi receptor . also incorporated in the panel were antibodies to mp-associated antigens with well-characterized tissue distribution but of currently unknown function . constituent cells of the tumors varied in their reactions with the antibodies of the panel . although mononuclear cells in tumor stroma were labeled with all of the antibodies against the mp markers , giant cells reacted strongly only with antibodies to lca and the mp-associated antigen recognized by the antibody ebm11 . giant cells were weakly and focally labeled with antibodies ( kb90 and uchm1 ) against two additional mp-associated determinants and were unreactive with the remaining antibodies in the panel . spindled stromal cells , which appeared to produce collagen , were not labeled with any of the antibodies in the panel . only endothelial cells reacted with antibody to factor 8. the results of this study suggest that giant cells of gct are derived from stromal cells of mononuclear phagocyte lineage , and that the stromal precurser cells lose some , but not all , mp-associated antigens as they mature into giant cells . 
age-related changes in bone mass in the senescence-accelerated mouse ( sam ) . sam-r / 3 and sam-p / 6 as new murine models for senile osteoporosis . age-related changes of the femoral bone mass in several strains of the senescence-accelerated mouse ( sam ) were investigated . microdensitometrically , all strains exhibited essentially the same patterns of age changes , that is , bone mass corrected by the diameter of the shaft reached the peak value when the mice were 4 or 5 months of age and then fell linearly with age up to over 20 months of age . two strains , sam-r / 3 and sam-p / 6 , which originated from the same ancestry on pedigree , had a significantly lower peak bone mass than other strains ( sam-r / 1 , sam-r / 2 , sam-p / 1 , and sam-p / 2 ) . on the other hand , the strains with a low peak bone mass had the same rate of decrease as other strains . mineral and collagen contents per dry weight of bone showed little difference among the strains . histologic studies of tibia , femur , and lumbar spine revealed that the osteopenia was not due to osteomalacia but , rather , to osteoporosis . the elderly mice in these two strains were prone to fracture , thus should be important models for study of senile osteoporosis seen clinically . 
dietary cholesterol-induced changes in macrophage characteristics . relationship to atherosclerosis . in diet-induced hypercholesterolemia , circulating monocytes adhere to the endothelium of the vessel wall and emigrate into the intima . atherosclerotic lesions may develop , characterized by the presence of lipid-laden macrophages and proliferating smooth muscle cells recruited from the media . using rat peritoneal macrophages , the authors examined the influence of diet-induced hypercholesterolemia on several variables of macrophage function that may contribute to lesion formation , including adhesion to bovine aortic endothelial cells ( baecs ) and vascular smooth muscle cells ( vsmcs ) , the production of chemoattractants and mitogens for vsmcs , and the release of the reactive oxygen species , superoxide . in general , a hypercholesterolemia-induced augmentation of macrophage function was observed . in comparison with macrophages from normal animals ( n m phi s ) , macrophages from hypercholesterolemic animals ( h m phi s ) were 50-80 % more adhesive to baecs and vsmcs . h m phi-secreted products increased vsmc migration 6 to 7-fold , whereas n m0s only stimulated motility 2.5-fold . in addition , h m phi-conditioned media produced increased vsmc growth 5-fold , compared with a 2.5-fold increase produced by n m phi-conditioned media . although the production of superoxide was found to be the same for both n m phi s and h m phi s , the release of superoxide by macrophages found in the intima of hypercholesterolemic animals may contribute to the necrosis of cells in the developing lesion . these results suggest that dietary cholesterol may accelerate atherosclerotic lesion formation by inducing specific changes in the properties of circulating monocytes and intimal macrophages . 
the parathyroid gland in health and disease . the authors studied the parathyroid glands from 100 previously healthy subjects who died suddenly and were admitted to the dade county medical examiner 's ( me ) morgue and from 66 inpatients who died at jackson memorial hospital ( jmh ) . parathyroid glands in patients with diseases ( jmh series ) were heavier than those in healthy persons ( me series ) , and both groups of glands were significantly heavier than those previously reported . mean glandular weight in white subjects was 42.6 + / - 20.3 mg , with a range of 22-103 mg . the 95 % upper limit of gland weight for healthy white subjects was 73.1 mg and for black subjects , 91.6 mg . the size and weight exhibited a skewed distribution . gland weight varied with age , increasing to a maximum in the 41-60 year old age group in all subsets except white women , in whom it continued to increase till after age 70. there was slight correlation ( r2 = 0.15 ) of gland weight with body weight within series and race groups ; parenchymal content of the glands was not constant but correlated positively with glandular weight . glands from both series had a comparable fat content . fat was unevenly distributed throughout the gland , and its amount was highly variable , ranging between 0 and 90 % , with a mean of 26 % for white subjects and 24 % for black subjects in both series . therefore , percentage fat may not be used as an index of hyperplasia . healthy back subjects had heavier glands than healthy white subjects , unaccounted for by differences in body weights ; this difference was not statistically significant in subjects with disease . within the black race , glands were not significantly heavier in disease than in health , and in the few cases with serum calcium determinations , the gland weight did not vary inversely with serum calcium levels as in white subjects , suggesting a basic difference in parathyroid calcium metabolism between the two races . 
portal branch ligation in the rat . reevaluation of a model . the effects of portal occlusion on the liver have been differently reported in different studies . the authors therefore reevaluated a model of portal branch ligation ( pbl ) in the rat . histologic appearance , dna synthetic activity , labeling count , and mitotic index were serially evaluated in both ligated and nonligated parts of the liver after interruption of the portal flow to one fourth , one third , and two thirds of the liver mass . the authors confirmed the presence of compensatory hyperplasia induced in the nonligated liver lobe ( s ) by pbl , and its intensity was roughly proportional to the amount of liver tissue devoid of portal perfusion . portal-deprived liver tissue underwent a rapid and progressive atrophy , and , by the end of the first week , the weight of this part had decreased 10-fold . by a balance between atrophy and compensatory growth , the total liver weight was maintained at the level of sham-operated animals throughout the experiment . pbl invariably resulted in early centrilobular necrosis , which occupied 15-24 % of the ligated lobe ( s ) . however , already after 4 days it was almost totally resorbed and did not appear de novo . pbl was not followed by local collateralization . 
the in situ cellular immune response in acute herpes simplex encephalitis . to characterize the in situ cellular immune response in acute herpes simplex encephalitis ( hse ) , the authors stained frozen brain specimens from 19 patients with hse and 8 controls with a panel of monoclonal antibodies , which allowed them to identify inflammatory cell subsets and expression of activation markers and major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) molecules . parenchymal and meningeal inflammatory infiltrates were composed of t cells , with fewer natural killer and b cells , and variable numbers of granulocytes and macrophages . t4+ and t8+ cells were present in equal numbers . inflammatory cells expressed interleukin-2 receptor , mhc class i ( hla-alpha chain , beta-2 microglobulin ) , and mhc class ii ( hla-dr , hla-dq ) molecules . there was increased mhc molecule expression in hse on resident cells , including neurons and vascular endothelium , and vascular expression of hla-dr was greater than that of hla-dq ( p less than 0.01 ) . no correlations between immune parameters with amount of corticosteroid therapy or duration of illness before biopsy was performed or outcome were found . t cell-mediated cytotoxic and delayed hypersensitivity mechanisms may contribute to tissue injury in hse . 
lipid metabolism in xanthomatous skin of hypercholesterolemic rabbits . the authors studied xanthomatous skin in cholesterol-fed rabbits for changes in lipid content and in activities of enzymes regulating intracellular lipid content . after 80 days of hypercholesterolemic diet , xanthomas were widespread and changes in lipid metabolism were marked . in both tissue homogenates and cell membrane pellets , unesterified cholesterol and phospholipids increased 2-fold to 6-fold , and cholesteryl esters increased about 30-fold . tissue triglycerides , however , decreased to half the levels found in control skin . cholesterol esterification rates , measured by activity of acyl coenzyme a : cholesterol acyltransferase , increased moderately to markedly ; hydrolase activity against 4-methylumbelliferyl oleate also increased at both acid and neutral ph , but hydrolase activity against cholesterol oleate increased only at acid ph . thus , hypercholesterolemia caused striking increases in intracellular cholesterol esterification rates , increases in lipase activity at both neutral and acid ph , and increases in cholesteryl ester hydrolase activity at acid ph . increases in cholesterol-esterifying activity uniformly exceeded increases in cholesteryl ester hydrolytic activity in congruence with net accumulation of cholesteryl ester . skin xanthoma grade , however , had no consistent relation to the cholesterol esterification rates . instead , the enzyme data suggested that marked abnormalities of lipid metabolism are diffusely distributed through dermal tissue as a precondition for the focal emergence of xanthomas . 
proliferation of the surface-connected intracytoplasmic membranous network in skeletal muscle disease . a surface-connected intracytoplasmic membranous ( scim ) network proliferates in skeletal muscle diseases and in myotubes grown in vitro . the authors observed frequent occurrence of " coated " microdomains in the form of budding vesicles in the proliferated components of this network and suspected a potential role the proliferated membranes might have in the endocytosis of molecules into myotubes undergoing repair or regeneration . five-day-old myotubes in culture were incubated at 37 c and between 2 and 4 c with two tracers , lucifer yellow and ferritin , both known to enter other types of cells via a fluid-phase endocytotic pathway . the differential penetration of lucifer yellow at 37 c and below 2-4 c was examined by fluorescence microscopy and by electron microscopy . lucifer yellow was rendered electron-opaque by photoreacting it with an intense light in the presence of dab . ferritin penetration at 37 c and between 2 and 4 c was compared and quantitated ultrastructurally . the authors found that endocytosis of the tracers into myotubes and eventually into lysosomes took place after the tracers had diffused into the lumen of the proliferated scim network . these processes were inhibited below 4 c . this finding , coupled with the presence of " coated " microdomains in the proliferated membranes , led us to suspect that the scim network may have a role in membrane turnover of metabolically active diseased muscle cells undergoing regeneration . 
enhancement of human polymorphonuclear leukocyte adherence to plastic and endothelium by phorbol myristate acetate . comparison with human c5a . the adherence of circulating neutrophils to vascular endothelium represents a necessary step in the chemotactic emigration of neutrophils to extravascular inflammatory sites . studies of neutrophil adherence induced by phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) were undertaken to determine the ability of a nonchemotactic neutrophil stimulus to provoke increased adherence . the authors found that the adherence of human neutrophils to plastic surfaces or confluent monolayers of endothelial cells is enhanced in a concentration-dependent fashion by exposure of neutrophils to pma . the effect of pma concentration ( 0.1-5.0 ng / ml ) on increased neutrophil adherence parallels that observed for superoxide anion generation and release of lysosomal enzymes from specific granules . whereas complement c5a-treated neutrophils exhibited a fourfold to fivefold increase in adherence to endothelial cells , pma-treated neutrophils showed a 10-fold to 20-fold increase . the ability of pma to cause increased neutrophil adherence to endothelium appeared to be directed primarily at the neutrophil . pretreatment of neutrophils with pma was as effective as coincubation in causing increased adherence to plastic surfaces or confluent cultured endothelial cells , but pretreatment of endothelial cells with pma failed to promote neutrophil adherence . alteration of neutrophil cytoskeletal structures by cytochalasin b treatment did not prevent subsequent pma-stimulated neutrophil adherence . these results demonstrate that increased neutrophil adherence to surfaces can be induced by a nonchemotactic stimulus and that neutrophil adherence is independent of organized microfilaments . 
a structural analysis of gap and tight junctions in the rat liver during a dietary treatment that induces oval cell proliferation . the authors have investigated early changes in liver cell gap and tight junctions that occur when rats are fed a carcinogenic diet . animals were fed a choline-deficient diet that contained 0.1 % ethionine ( cde ) for periods up to 6 weeks . short-term feeding of this diet results in the rapid proliferation of so-called " oval cells " within the liver , which is reversible upon returning the rats to a normal diet . livers from animals fed the diet were removed at various times during feeding and during recovery from the diet and were analyzed by light and electron microscopy . the freeze-fracture technique was used to produce extended views of the internal structure of liver cell membranes at each stage under study . the characteristic junctional complex surrounding canalicular regions in normal liver disappears after only 2 weeks of the cde regimen . gap junctions were not found after 4 weeks of the diet , and tight junctions became increasingly disorganized . tight junction elements were observed , however , between hepatocytes and oval cells , which indicated that these two cell types do interact directly . changes occur in the structural complexity of tight junction elements between hepatocytes and between hepatocytes and oval cells . recovery from the cde diet results in a rapid increase in junctional complexity , and the large gap junction plaques characteristic of normal liver are visible within 2 weeks after cessation of the cde regimen . these and other observations demonstrate that reversible alterations in hepatocyte gap and tight junctions occur as a result of administration of a diet that induces oval cell proliferation . the relationship of these changes to those that have been reported during other processes of cell proliferation are discussed . 
glomerular basement membrane anionic charge site changes early in aminonucleoside nephrosis . alterations of glomerular basement membrane ( gbm ) anionic ( charge sites , css ) in the development of proteinuria in a model of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome in man ( puromycin aminonucleoside nephrotic syndrome [ pan ] in the rat ) were assessed quantitatively and sequentially early after disease induction . gbm css ( known to consist mainly of heparan sulfate-rich proteoglycans ) were stained in vivo and , in a separate group of animals by an in vitro method , with the cationic marker polyethyleneimine ( pei ) studied by electron microscopic examination . four hours after administration of pan , there was a significant decrease in gbm lamina rara externa css : 18 + / - 0.7 versus 22.0 + / - 2.2 per 1000 nm gbm in controls by pei injection and 17.2 + / - 2.7 versus 21.1 + / - 1.6 per 1000 nm gbm in controls by pei in vitro staining . this cs alteration coincided with changes in glomerular epithelial cell morphologic characteristics ( increased cytoplasmic organelles and rough endoplasmic reticulum ) and preceded the detection of foot process broadening ( at 24 hours ) and increased urinary albuminuria ( suggested at 12-24 hours , statistically significant at 36-48 hours ) . these results suggest that gbm cs-heparan sulfate proteoglycan alterations consisting of either decreased number and / or less anionic charge occur early in pan and support a role for glomerular epithelial cell maintenance of gbm cs for normal glomerular function . 
intimal cells and atherosclerosis . relationship between the number of intimal cells and major manifestations of atherosclerosis in the human aorta . the subendothelial intima of human aorta is populated by cells of various shapes . round and ovoid cells which are lymphocyte- and monocyte-like hematogenous cells account for less than 5 % of the cell population . the bulk of the intimal population ( over 95 % ) is made up of cells that can be described as elongated , stellate , elongated with side processes , and irregularly shaped . to identify these morphologic forms , the authors have used target electron microscopy . it has been established that elongated cells devoid of side processes possess all the ultrastructural features of differentiated smooth muscle cells : a developed contractile apparatus in the form of microfilament bundles with dense bodies occupying most of the cytoplasm , basal membrane surrounding the whole of the cell , and micropinocytotic vesicles along the plasma membrane . the other morphologic forms have an ultra-structure that allows us to identify them as so-called modified smooth muscle cells . they differ from the typical smooth muscle cells in that they have fewer contractile structures and a more developed biosynthetic apparatus . some of stellate and irregular shaped cells are utterly devoid of contractile structures . to quantitate the number of cells of different morphologic forms , the authors used alcoholic-alkaline dissociation of prefixed intima . it was established that the intimal population is multiplied at the site of an atherosclerotic lesion , the number of stellate cells being increased much more substantially , compared with other morphologic cell forms . it was found that an increase in the number of stellate cells is related to such sequelae of atherosclerosis in aorta as intimal thickening , deposition of lipids , and an increased amount of collagen . there was a high positive correlation between the alteration in the stellate cell number occurring in the intima and the above-mentioned parameters ( correlation coefficients were 0.732 , 0.800 and 0.953 , respectively ) . the correlations between these indexes and the total number of intimal cells or the number of cells belonging to each of the other morphologic forms were not so high . a multivariate analysis gave similar results . thus , it may be suggested that stellate cells are the principal cell type involved in the disease . this report discusses the origin of stellate and other intimal cells and their role in atherogenesis . 
relationships between near surface blood flow and altered sensations among spinal cord injured veterans . ten patients with clinical diagnoses of complete transverse spinal cord tissue destruction were interviewed about any sensations they felt below the level at which normal feelings were evident . all ten reported experiencing various feelings most of the time and nine reported that some of those feelings were usually quite painful . videothermographs showing differences in skin temperature of 0.1 degrees celsius were taken to evaluate blood flow patterns to a depth of 1.5 cm . changes in blood flow patterns were found to correlate highly with the level at which sensations changed from normal to abnormal and to correlate virtually exactly with the locations of pain reported from supposedly desenate areas . 
suprascapular neuropathy related to the use of crutches . a 41-year-old man with shoulder pain was found to have a suprascapular neuropathy . the nerve injury was believed to be secondary to improper crutch usage . the pathophysiology of this unusual cause of suprascapular neuropathy involves injury to the nerve due to exaggerated movements around the shoulder joint . suprascapular entrapment neuropathy is another potential hazard of improper crutch usage . therefore , properly fitted crutches and adequate crutch training are essential for the prevention of additional disability . 
improved ankle-foot system for above-knee amputees . above-knee amputees were studied while wearing a prosthesis containing either a standard or a modified single axis foot . the modified foot allowed 12-15 degrees of dorsiflexion and reduced stiffness in the area of the metatarsal-phalangeal ( mtp ) joint . the amputees were allowed to vary the stiffness at the two joints to obtain what " felt best . " the amputees agreed that in comparison to the standard single-axis foot , the modified foot : a ) offered a more comfortable gait while walking on level ground ; b ) made walking up inclines easier ; c ) affected knee stability while walking on declines ; and d ) made foot placement on stairs and ladders more critical due to potential knee instability . as well as qualitative reactions , changes in the gait cycle were measured quantitatively for different speeds and inclinations of walking on a treadmill . measurements from normal subjects matched by age and sex were used for control purposes . all participants wore soft-soled shoes . the amputees selected a stiffness that allowed a degree of dorsiflexion which precisely matched on average that of the normal subjects . in contrast , they selected a stiffness at the mtp joint which allowed very little flexion of the toes . significant changes also occurred in the pattern of hip movements , so that they became much more symmetrical on the two sides , although substantial differences remained between the hip movements of the amputees and the normal subjects . if modifications in the ankle joint can be coupled with improvements in the knee joint to prevent potential instability , a much improved gait should be possible for above-knee amputees . 
obsessive-compulsive disorder with psychotic features : a phenomenologic analysis . the authors review the literature on obsessive-compulsive disorder and present clinical vignettes to illustrate that delusions can arise in the course of this illness . these delusions do not signify a schizophrenic diagnosis but represent reactive affective or paranoid psychoses , which are generally transient . using a phenomenologic analysis of 23 patients , the authors further argue that obsessive-compulsive disorder represents a psychopathological spectrum varying along a continuum of insight . patients at the severe end of this spectrum are best described as having an " obsessive-compulsive psychosis . " the authors discuss the implications of these considerations for dsm-iii revisions . 
transitional object use and borderline psychopathology . the authors examined whether transitional object use distinguishes borderline patients from patients with other personality disorders or schizophrenia and from normal subjects . one hundred five subjects were given a structured interview to assess present and past transitional object use . the borderline group had the highest scores on the interview , and the group with nonborderline axis ii diagnoses the lowest . although transitional object use was not specific to the borderline diagnosis , it did emerge as a potentially useful developmental and psychodynamic marker for borderline persons . 
reduced csf concentrations of homovanillic acid and homovanillic acid to 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid ratios in depressed patients : relationship to suicidal behavior and dexamethasone nonsuppression . depressed patients who had attempted suicide ( n = 19 ) had significantly lower csf homovanillic acid ( hva ) levels than patients who had not attempted suicide ( n = 8 ) and control subjects ( n = 41 ) . intergroup levels of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid ( 5-hiaa ) were not significantly different . the ratio of csf hva to csf 5-hiaa was significantly lower in both patient groups than in control subjects , and patients who had attempted suicide had csf hva / 5-hiaa ratios that were nearly 50 % those of the control subjects . the combinations of nonsuppression on the dexamethasone suppression test and either a low csf hva level or a low csf hva / 5-hiaa ratio were significantly more common among patients who had attempted suicide than among those who had not . 
hangover effects on aircraft pilots 14 hours after alcohol ingestion : a preliminary report . using a repeated measures counterbalanced design , the authors had 10 navy p3-c orion pilots fly two carefully designed simulated flights under control ( no hangover ) and hangover conditions . for the control condition , pilots drank no alcohol within 48 hours before the simulated flight . for the hangover condition , they flew 14 hours after drinking enough ethanol mixed with diet soft drinks to attain a blood alcohol concentration of 100 mg / dl . pilot performance was worse in the hangover condition on virtually all measures but significantly worse on three of six variance measures and one of six performance measures . the results indicate that caution should be exercised when piloting an aircraft 14 hours or less after ingesting similar quantities of alcohol . 
a controlled study of transitional day care for non-chronically-ill patients . the authors randomly assigned 79 inpatients with nonchronic schizophrenia or affective disorder to either an intensive experimental day program called " transitional treatment " or a control treatment--weekly clinically believed to require intensive posthospital treatment to make the transition to the community . although initially there was a significantly higher dropout rate from the control condition , at the point of discharge from the two programs as well as at 6- and 12-month follow-up there was no difference in outcome . direct costs for the transitional treatment , however , were much higher . 
brief psychiatric hospitalization : what are its effects ? this exploratory study was undertaken to begin to identify what clinically significant changes besides symptom diminution may occur during brief psychiatric hospitalization . intensive interviews with 20 patients at the beginning and end of a 1-month inpatient stay revealed that their cognitive abilities , self-esteem , and perceptions of the availability of other people frequently improved . the patients attributed these changes to forming relationships with others , having the opportunity to reflect , and making the decision to change . the improvements seemed to affect the patients ' attitudes toward themselves and their lives , and 12 patients underwent significant life changes after discharge . 
use of mental health services for the treatment of panic disorder . the author reports the results of five studies of panic disorder undertaken as part of the epidemiologic catchment area program of the national institute of mental health ( nimh ) . this program involves community samples in new haven , conn . ( n = 5 , 034 ) , baltimore ( n = 3 , 481 ) , st . louis ( n = 3 , 004 ) , durham , n.c. ( n = 3 , 921 ) , and los angeles ( n = 3 , 132 ) . diagnoses were based on the nimh diagnostic interview schedule and dsm-iii . panic disorder led the list of disorders for which subjects in the five studies received ambulatory mental health services . treatment rates for panic disorder were as high as or higher than those for somatization disorder , schizophrenia , and major affective disorders . furthermore , panic attacks may have been the reason that many subjects with other disorders sought treatment . 
changing a state mental health system through litigation : the arizona experiment . litigation may be a viable means to change mental health systems for the chronically mentally ill . court orders achieved in the 1970s have been ignored or proven inefficient over the years . however , in arizona , a strategy was designed by a team of lawyers and psychiatrists to deal with failures seen elsewhere in court actions seeking adequate services for chronically mentally ill patients . this novel approach produced a favorable court outcome and triggered a chain reaction at the executive and legislative levels to reform radically the system of care for the chronically mentally ill in arizona . 
training psychiatrists in the community : a report of the italian experience . in 1978 a revolutionary mental health act was passed in italy . by closing large mental hospitals and replacing them with community programs , it required a radical shift in psychiatric practice . the authors discuss the background philosophy , principles , and practical implications of this change . they describe a model program and training design of a 4-year residency in which psychiatrists learn the skills for community work while actually working in the community . the residency differs from most u.s. residencies in having trainees responsible for patients wherever they are being treated ( residents are not rotated between services ) , its strong team orientation , and the value placed on community work . 
the animal rights movement : a research perspective [ editorial ] 
symptoms of neuroleptic malignant syndrome in 82 consecutive inpatients . this study , a retrospective chart review of 82 consecutive male inpatients , assessed the spectrum and prevalence of neuroleptic malignant syndrome . the prevalence of diagnosed neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( 2.4 % ) was greater than that generally reported . eight additional patients manifested symptoms that abated without cessation of neuroleptic treatment . this suggests that neuroleptic malignant syndrome is a spectrum disorder that has milder variants . affective illness may be a risk factor for its development . 
failure of buspirone to manage benzodiazepine withdrawal . fifteen patients with 146 cumulative years of tranquilizer use were withdrawn from their benzodiazepine ( nine gradually and six abruptly ) , and buspirone , a new nonbenzodiazepine anxiolytic , was substituted . the addition of buspirone did not appear to lessen the intensity of the withdrawal state . this finding supports preclinical studies indicating that buspirone has no clinically significant benzodiazepine receptor activity . 
serum antibodies to epstein-barr virus in patients with major depressive disorder . to determine whether major depressive disorder might be associated with serologic evidence for a chronic active epstein-barr virus infection , viral-specific antibodies were measured in two separate groups of depressed patients ( n = 43 ) and in 46 appropriately matched healthy volunteers . no evidence that depression affects cellular immunity to the point that a persistent epstein-barr virus carrier state becomes activated was found . there was also no evidence that depression results from an unrecognized chronic active epstein-barr virus infection . the authors conclude that the routine clinical determination of expensive commercial epstein-barr virus antibody profiles is not indicated in most patients with major depressive disorder in the absence of other signs of chronic active epstein-barr viral infection . 
desipramine and 2-hydroxydesipramine in human breast milk and the nursing infant 's serum . desipramine and its metabolite 2-hydroxydesipramine were measured in the milk of a nursing mother and in the plasma of the mother and infant during administration of 300 mg / day of desipramine to the mother . similar concentrations of both compounds were found in maternal plasma and milk . a pharmacokinetic plot of the milk over 24 hours showed the expected rise and fall of the substances following a single nighttime dose . neither parent compound nor metabolite could be detected in the infant 's serum even though the measurements were made shortly after peak ingestion by the infant . furthermore , no clinical signs of toxicity were observed in the infant after 3 weeks of treating the mother with desipramine . 
prevalence of misuse of prescribed benzodiazepines in patients with primary anxiety disorder or major depression . seventy-one patients with major depression or an anxiety disorder were treated with benzodiazepines . they were followed prospectively for evidence of misuse or abuse . there was no evidence of benzodiazepine abuse . five patients ( all with major depression ) misused their benzodiazepines . 
psychotic symptoms in borderline personality disorder . in a pilot study of 13 patients with borderline personality disorder , analysis of brief psychotic symptoms was done . derealization and depersonalization were the most common symptoms , but drug-free hallucinations were also observed . the symptoms did not appear to be factitious . 
comparability of panic attacks in panic disorder , depression , and agoraphobia [ letter ] 
on panic attacks and neurologic problems [ letter ] 
do psychostimulants kindle panic disorder ? [ letter ] 
on alexithymic expression and behavior [ letter ] 
what analysts say they do versus what patients say [ letter ] 
recognition of depression in briquet 's syndrome [ letter ] 
problems in switching psychological perspectives [ letter ] 
cerebral lateralization in depression [ letter ] 
manic episode after propranolol withdrawal [ letter ] 
on concordance for tuberculosis and schizophrenia [ letter ] 
sequential treatment of panic disorder with alprazolam and imipramine [ letter ] 
the severity of depression and nonsuppression on the dst [ letter ] 
mental illness and primary care [ editorial ] 
clustering of disease [ editorial ] 
hispanic / latino--what 's in a name ? [ editorial ] 
psychiatric diagnoses of medical service users : evidence from the epidemiologic catchment area program . based on data from the five sites of the national institute of mental health-sponsored epidemiologic catchment area ( eca ) program , this paper examines the prevalence of psychiatric disorder among recent medical service users versus nonusers , with a particular focus on affective disorders , substance abuse / dependence , and phobias . the rate of current diagnostic interview schedule ( dis ) disorders among medical users in all five eca sites is 21.7 per cent ( slightly higher than general population rates ) versus 16.7 per cent among nonusers ; there is generally no difference between users and nonusers with past dis diagnoses . affective disorders were among the most common mental disorders of medical service users , especially among females , with little variation between sites : females : users : 6.9 per cent to 9.3 per cent , nonusers : 3.4 per cent to 6.4 per cent , and males : users : 3.3 per cent to 6.5 per cent , nonusers : 1.2 per cent to 4.1 per cent . rates of phobias among persons using medical services are also higher than among nonusers . substance abuse disorders are at least as common among persons who use medical services ( 8 per cent to 14 per cent of male users ) as among those who do not ( 9 per cent to 11 per cent of male nonusers ) . the high rates of affective disorders among women and of substance abuse among male medical service users underscore the need to increase the ability of general medical practitioners to recognize and manage or refer these conditions . 
childbearing among young latino women in the united states . we analyzed 1979 and 1982 data from the youth cohort of the national longitudinal surveys ( nls ) of labor market experience to compare rates of early childbearing among white , black , mexican-origin and puerto rican women up to age 21. latino young women fall in between the extremely low rate of the whites and the extremely high rate of the blacks . mexican and puerto rican young women have similar proportions of premarital first births , but the marital first birth rate for young mexicans is twice that of the puerto ricans . the bulk of mexican first births , like births to whites , occur within marriage , while puerto rican first births are similar to those of blacks , the majority being out-of-wedlock . these racial / ethnic differences in premarital first birth rates do not change greatly when socioeconomic status , and birthplace of respondents and respondents ' parents are controlled . 
tuberculosis risk among migrant farm workers on the delmarva peninsula . a survey was conducted to ascertain the risk of tuberculosis ( tb ) among migrant farm workers on the delmarva peninsula . relevant histories were obtained from 842 migrants ; a total of 709 skin tests were completed , and 239 sputum specimens were examined for acid-fast bacilli ( afb ) and culture . no cases of infectious tuberculosis were ascertained by history or afb examination . one sputum culture was positive for m . tuberculosis and 13 were positive for various species of nontuberculous mycobacteria . thirty-seven per cent of migrants tested had significant skin test reactions of 10 mm or more . reaction rates for men were 41 per cent and for women 25 per cent . age specific rates ranged from 14 per cent in children aged 5-14 to 54 per cent for ages 45-54 . rates for the principal national / ethnic groups were haitians 55 per cent , mexicans 36 per cent , us blacks 29 per cent and us-born latinos 20 per cent . based on these results and other information currently available , it is recommended that current centers for disease control ( cdc ) recommendations for tb prophylaxis continue to be applied for migrant workers , but that mass screening by skin testing in camp populations not be emphasized . other recommendations focus on : case finding of active disease , improving continuity and follow-up , increasing coordination among involved agencies , and actively supporting improved economic and living conditions for migrant farm workers . 
ambulatory surgery utilization by age level . we compared ambulatory and inpatient surgery utilization by age level for procedures known to be frequently performed on an ambulatory basis . our scope of data was the crouse irving memorial hospital in syracuse , new york during 1984. the hospital operates one of the largest freestanding ambulatory surgery programs in the united states . the study included 8 , 348 ambulatory procedures , 42 per cent of all operations performed under the aegis of this institution . at the aggregate , the inpatient surgery included a somewhat lower proportion of young adults and a higher proportion of individuals aged 65 and over did outpatient surgery . for specific procedures , however , age distributions differed . ambulatory procedures included lower percentages of elderly than did inpatient utilization for inguinal hernia repair , carpal tunnel release , destruction of larynx lesions , hernia repairs , destruction of skin lesions , and other operations , while ambulatory utilization for lens procedures included higher percentages of elderly patients than did inpatient utilization . physician practice patterns also appeared to influence the setting of certain procedures . the study data suggested that persons involved in health planning should evaluate ambulatory surgery use on an age and procedure-specific basis , and utilization review should evaluate procedures on a case-by-case basis . 
the prevalence of overweight and obesity in britain , canada , and united states [ published erratum appears in am j public health 1987 jul ; 77 ( 7 ) : 818 ] three nations carried out large surveys of their non-institutionalized populations during the period 1976-81 , with essentially similar techniques for measuring height and weight . using criteria previously published for the british survey , we analyzed the canadian and united states data and compared the prevalence of excessive weight for ages 20-64 in the three countries . overweight was defined as a quetelet index value of 25.1-30 , and obesity as a value exceeding 30. compared to their canadian and british counterparts , american men are more likely to be overweight or obese , especially at the lower age levels . the proportion of excessively heavy men reaches a plateau around age 50 in all three countries , possibly indicative of a survivor phenomenon . among women , the us has the highest proportion of excessively heavy individuals at all ages except 20-24 ; this difference is especially marked at ages 45-54 . unlike men , there is no evidence that the proportion of overweight or obese women reaches a plateau by age 64. 
an epizootic of rabies in maryland , 1982-84 . the number of reported rabid raccoons increased by 617 per cent in maryland from 1982 to 1984. the per cent of raccoons that tested positive for rabies increased from 7.9 per cent in 1982 to 57 per cent in 1984. during this period of time , more than 74 per cent of human exposures to rabid animals involved raccoons . reports of animal bites of humans , however , showed only a 2.6 per cent increase . the raccoon rabies epizootic has had significant public health impact in terms of human rabies postexposure prophylaxis and rabies control programs . 
evaluation of public health preschool child developmental screening : the process and outcomes of a community program . we conducted a randomized controlled trial of a public health and education screening program aimed at all 4 , 797 four to five year old children registering for kindergarten in three school districts of southern ontario , canada . children received either the denver developmental screening test ( ddst ) with a community health intervention program for positive screeness ; the ddst with no intervention for positive screenees ; or no screening test . the intervention program consisted of referral to the child 's physician for assessment ; a review conference between the child 's teacher and the school health nurse ; parent counseling ; and monitoring of the child in school by the school health nurse . at the end of the third school year , no differences were found between positive screenees in the community health intervention group and the " no intervention " groups using individual academic achievement , cognitive , and developmental tests . parents ' reports revealed no differences between groups in children 's mental , social , and behavioral well-being . however , parents of intervention program children had more worry about their child 's school progress suggesting a potentially harmful labeling effect . in comparison to a random sample of children with normal ddst results , or a random sample of children who had randomly not been screened , the children with positive preschool ddsts had substantially more school problems three years after screening . 
investigation of occupational cancer clusters : theory and practice . local and federal government agencies are often asked to investigate apparent clusters of cancer in communities or workplaces . often these investigations cannot utilize the methods that have been developed for evaluation of disease clusters because the clusters are too small , and the populations to be studied and the periods of time to be covered are determined in an a posteriori manner . still , government investigators are called upon to render an official opinion of the apparent clusters . application of a theoretical approach to cluster analysis must give way to a more pragmatic approach . a review of 61 investigations of apparent clusters conducted by the national institute for occupational safety and health ( niosh ) during the period 1978-84 showed that most of the clusters contained five or fewer cases and had no plausible occupational etiology . despite the few clusters that were identified , these investigations generally provided a service to workers and employers who were concerned about occupational cancer . 
seasonal affective disorder : a review of the syndrome and its public health implications . seasonal affective disorder ( sad ) is a disturbance of mood and behavior which resembles some seasonal changes seen in lower mammals . like these animal seasonal changes , sad is thought to be related to decreased sunlight during winter months . [ sad has been successfully treated with exposure to bright artificial light of higher intensity than is usually present in the home or workplace . many people not suffering from sad may nonetheless have seasonal changes which could be helped by environmental light supplementation . lighting standards in the home and workplace should be re-evaluated on the basis of new knowledge of the psychobiological effects of light . ] we review the literature on sad and discuss its public health implications in the context of a typical case presentation . 
latino terminology : conceptual bases for standardized terminology . conceptually , the only element that all latin american countries share is not language , race , or culture , but political : the presence of united states foreign policy as pronounced in the monroe doctrine in 1823. the political relation between the us and latin america has colored us domestic policy toward its populations of latin american origin . from the beginning of us-latin american relations , there has been a constant confusion of race for national origin , compounded by the adoption of euphemistic terms such as " spanish surname . " the term " latino " , derived from " latin american , " is offered as the term that best reflects both the diverse national origins and the nearly unitary treatment of latinos in the us . the term latino is operationalized to include all persons of latin american origin or descent , irrespective of language , race , or culture . specifically excluded are individuals of spanish national origin outside the western hemisphere . when a synthetic sample has been derived , the term should be modified to reflect the basis upon which the sample was derived , e.g. , " latino ( spanish surname ) . " when working with latinos from a specific national origin , that should be noted , e.g. , " mexican origin latinos . " 
standardized terminology for hispanic populations . 
feasibility of large-scale cholesterol screening : experience with a portable capillary-blood testing device . we conducted a voluntary cholesterol screening in a medical / occupational setting using the eastman kodak ektachem ( desk top ) blood analyzer . in 10 hours , five technicians performed a finger-stick puncture on 1 , 081 screenees , 17.7 per cent of whom were classified as moderate-to-high risk . the cost per screenee was under $ 3 ; cost per moderate-to-high risk case was under $ 16. turn-around time from check-in to report of result was under one hour . this project suggests the feasibility and acceptability of large-scale cholesterol blood screening . 
incidence , severity , and outcomes of brain injuries involving bicycles . we performed a population-based study of bicycle-related brain injuries in san diego , california , residents during 1981. incidence rates among males were three times higher than for females and were highest at ages 10-14 years for males . only one-third of bicycle-related brain injuries involved collision with a motor vehicle , and this proportion was independent of age or gender . brain injuries from motor-vehicle collisions were more severe than those resulting from other causes . over half the brain-injured bicyclists aged 15 and older who were blood alcohol tested were legally intoxicated . 
contraceptive usage during lactation in the united states : an update . national surveys of family growth data showed that as of 1982 , most lactating women who were sexually active used a contraceptive method ; barrier methods were most frequently used . black women and women of higher parity and lower educational level were more likely to be sexually active and not using a method . 
selecting presumably radiogenic cancers for compensation [ letter ] 
frame categories in weight-height tables [ letter ] 
dermal leishmaniasis in a texas cat [ published erratum appears in am j trop med hyg 1987 sep ; 37 ( 2 ) : 414 ] leishmaniasis was diagnosed by demonstrating amastigotes of leishmania from dermal lesions on the ear of a male long-haired domestic cat from uvalde , texas . leishmania from the cat were propagated in syrian hamsters , bovine macrophages , and in nnn medium . the organism , in the l . mexicana complex , is apparently the same as that reported from recent human cases in the same area . 
blastogenic responses of peripheral blood leukocytes from owl monkeys experimentally infected with leishmania braziliensis panamensis . the relationship of the progression and regression of cutaneous lesions of 6 owl monkeys ( aotus trivirgatus ) to the responses of their peripheral blood leukocytes ( pbl ) in vitro to mitogens and to leishmanial antigens , as well as their delayed skin test responses ( dth ) in vivo to leishmanin antigen , were studied after primary and challenge infections with leishmania braziliensis panamensis ( wr 128 or wr 539 ) . all 6 infected monkeys developed primary and satellite cutaneous leishmanial lesions which were measured for up to 30 weeks in 3 of the monkeys and up to 52 weeks in the other 3 monkeys . two owl monkeys which had recovered from cutaneous leishmaniasis demonstrated acquired resistance when challenged with an intradermal inoculation of l . b . panamensis ( wr 128 ) . reactivity of pbl from infected owl monkeys to pha , con a , and pwm was similar during primary and challenge infections to that observed prior to infection . reactivity to leishmanial antigens was detected at 20 to 28 weeks post-infection ( pi ) , became statistically significant after 28 weeks and remained elevated up to 52 weeks pi and after challenge infections . during primary infections dth responses to leishmanin antigen were detected as early as 8 weeks pi , and continued up to 27 weeks pi . after challenge infections dth reactivity was positive at 25 and 37 weeks , the only times the response was evaluated . the immunological responses of owl monkeys to l . b . panamensis were similar in many respects to those observed in humans with localized cutaneous leishmaniasis . this nonhuman primate model should be useful for future studies involving the immunology and chemotherapy of cutaneous leishmaniasis . 
leishmania major : antileishmanial activity of methylbenzethonium chloride . methylbenzethonium chloride ( mbcl ) decreased the growth of leishmania major promastigotes and amastigotes in vitro . this decrease occurred during 4 days of exposure to the drug at concentrations of 0.1 to 2.5 micrograms ml-1 . mbcl at 2 micrograms ml-1 killed almost 100 % of the free living promastigotes and 87 % of amastigotes within 4 days of treatment . electron microscopy studies showed marked swelling of mitochondria in treated parasites . a possible additional effect on the parasite surface membrane is discussed . 
leishmania donovani : immunization against infection as a function of parasite growth phase . c57bl / 6 mice were immunized against leishmania donovani infection with a subcutaneous vaccination protocol . groups received 3 injections at 4-day intervals combining glucan and killed promastigotes harvested from either logarithmic or stationary phase cultures . controls were immunized with glucan alone , stationary or log phase promastigotes alone , or were untreated . all groups were challenged intravenously with stationary phase promastigotes at day 45 post-immunization . results revealed that animals immunized with the glucan-killed parasite vaccine , utilizing promastigotes derived from either log ( gpl ) or stationary phase cultures ( gps ) , demonstrated significant resistance against infection as compared to controls or untreated mice . additionally , the reduction in hepatic amastigote proliferation in mice immunized with gps was significantly greater than in mice immunized with gpl . 
comparison of extracellular acid phosphatases from various isolates of leishmania . forty isolates of leishmania , representing all major species infecting humans and one parasite of lizards , were examined for their ability to secrete an extracellular acid phosphatase activity . this enzyme , which was originally described and characterized from a sudanese strain of l . donovani , was detected in the culture supernatants of all species of promastigotes examined except for l . major and l . tarentolae . there were quantitative differences among species in their levels of enzyme activity and in the sensitivity of the exoenzyme to inhibition by l ( + ) tartrate . upon electrophoresis in nondenaturing polyacrylamide gels , extracellular acid phosphatase from l . braziliensis panamensis , l . tropica , and l . mexicana showed distinctive patterns which were similar for all isolates of a given species , while enzymes from l . donovani isolates differed from one another in relative electrophoretic mobility . enzymes from all species appeared heterogeneous , showing either discrete multiple bands or single diffuse bands on gels stained for enzyme activity . although the biological function of the extracellular acid phosphatase is presently unknown , the exoenzyme may be of value as a diagnostic or taxonomic characteristic . 
isoenzyme patterns of entamoeba histolytica isolates from asymptomatic carriers : use of gradient acrylamide gels . a vertical polyacrylamide gradient gel ( 3 % to 7 % ) was designed to facilitate the electrophoretic resolution and classification of isoenzyme patterns of entamoeba histolytica isolates . the following enzyme systems were used : phosphoglucomutase ( pgm ) , hexokinase ( hx ) , glucosephosphate isomerase ( gpi ) , and malate dehydrogenase ( me ) . the modifications in the electrophoretic procedure and sample preparation allowed the reproducible comparison of enzyme patterns of axenic , monoxenic , and mixed cultures of e . histolytica isolated from humans . the clear distinction obtained in gradient polyacrylamide gels , between amebic isoenzyme bands and those from bacteria , renders this technique adequate for application to epidemiological studies where mixed cultures are used . the isoenzyme patterns of eight isolates from asymptomatic carriers , rigorously characterized by the absence of clinical , endoscopic , and serological findings were studied and compared with three well characterized pathogenic strains , cultured under axenic conditions . our observations confirm the existence of distinct isoenzyme patterns for pgm , hx , and gpi in pathogenic and nonpathogenic strains , and reveal the consistent presence of more than one band for gpi . in addition , a previously undescribed band for gpi with an rf of 0.64 in a carrier strain was found . the results suggest that while carriers usually harbor amebas with nonpathogenic isoenzyme patterns , pathogenic patterns also may be found in carriers . 
protozoal enteric infections among expatriates in bangladesh . in order to study the prevalence , incidence , and symptoms of infections with giardia lamblia and entamoeba histolytica , we followed 251 expatriates in bangladesh over a 1-year period . microscopic examination of fecal specimens was performed upon enrollment , at 3-month intervals , and during episodes of diarrhea . specimens were cultured for bacteria and samples of serum and saliva were collected for antibody studies ( igg and siga ) . the prevalence of g . lamblia infections was 5.2 % and the incidence 11.8 % . children aged less than or equal to 10 years and newcomers were most frequently infected ( p less than 0.02 ) . symptoms were present in 37 % of the subjects infected with g . lamblia . a systemic antibody response was observed in 57 % of symptomatic patients and 35 % of asymptomatic subjects during the first 2 months of infection . the prevalence and the incidence of e . histolytica infection were 3.2 % and 8.6 % , respectively . infections with e . histolytica were correlated with the duration of stay in bangladesh ; less than 1 year 7 % vs . greater than 3 years 26 % ( p less than 0.01 ) . most expatriates infected with e . histolytica were asymptomatic ( 90 % ) . three adult patients , who were resident in bangladesh for less than 1 year , were symptomatic but none of them developed dysentery or a serological response . four of 25 asymptomatic subjects had significant antibody titers . three of these people were seropositive for ameba at the beginning of the study . the local immune response , reflected by specific secretory iga in saliva samples , correlated poorly with both e . histolytica and g . lamblia infections . 
the clinical manifestations of rhodesian trypanosomiasis : an account of cases contracted in the okavango swamps of botswana . over 100 years ago , david livingstone reported the presence of tsetse flies in the okavango swamps in northern botswana . they have persisted in the region and recently have been responsible for many cases of rhodesian sleeping sickness caused by trypanosoma rhodesiense in visitors to the area . the clinical manifestations in illustrative cases of this disease are described . one patient who refused treatment died five months after being infected . one patient died of encephalopathy complicating treatment with melarsoprol ( mel b ) and one died in a hemorrhagic state associated with a heavy parasitemia early in his illness . most patients treated early respond well to treatment with specific drugs , usually suramin , and are cured . in those with involvement of the central nervous system the treatment required is more hazardous , but usually is effective in curing the patient . 
north american brugian filariasis : report of nine infections of humans [ published erratum appears in am j trop med hyg 1988 sep ; 39 ( 3 ) : 226 ] nine people living in rhode island , new york , pennsylvania , florida , or california acquired autochthonous brugian filariasis . each patient had an enlarged lymph node containing a single worm or , in one patient , a pair of worms . most worms were in lymphatic vessels within the node , but two worms were in the substance of the node . ten worms were studied , seven female and three male . female worms contained paired uteri that occupied most of the body cavity of the worm , and male worms contained a single reproductive tract . no worms were gravid . the diameter of the worms was small , 30 micron to 75 micron . the usual diameter of female worms was 65 micron to 75 micron , and 45 micron to 50 micron for male worms . the morphologic features of these worms , their anatomical location , and their geographic distribution are all characteristic of infection with a north american brugia species . 
identification of larval and adult simulium yahense and simulium sanctipauli based on species-specific enzyme markers and their distribution at different breeding habitats in central liberia . human-biting adults and late instar larvae of the simulium damnosum complex from four ecologically different simuliid breeding habitats in the firestone rubber plantation at harbel , liberia , were identified morphologically and the monthly species composition of each site was recorded . samples of the predominant species found at each site were assayed electrophoretically for species-specific variants of phosphoglucomutase ( pgm ) and trehalase ( tre ) . enzyme identifications of flies and larvae were compared with morphological identifications to determine the accuracy of field identifications relying upon morphological characters . enzyme identifications confirmed the accuracy of over 98 % of the adult female identifications . s . yahense was found to be the predominant human-biting species at each site over the 10 months of sampling , with s . sanctipauli comprising a small percentage of the biting fly population . species-specific larval enzymes confirmed the accuracy of more than 96 % of the larval identifications . s . yahense was the predominant larval species found in smaller , more shaded , cooler breeding waters , while s . sanctipauli predominated in the single large watercourse that was sampled . normally allopatric , mixed populations of these two larval species were found to exist at all sites , but sympatry occurred primarily during the wet season months of may-october . biting activity of s . sanctipauli was found to be greatest during wet season months , and generally reflected the increase of s . sanctipauli in the larval populations of habitats dominated by s . yahense . the low human-biting activity of s . sanctipauli at all sites and during times which fostered large populations of s . sanctipauli larvae may be an indication of this specie 's zoophilic tendency . circumstantial evidence of hybridization , the expression of pgm and tre species-specific variants for both species , was found in adults and larvae morphologically identified as s . yahense . the frequency of this " hybrid " condition , based upon pgm and tre , was calculated to be comparable to the frequency of hybridization as determined by larval chromosome inversions . 
tropical pyomyositis : is it an immunodeficiency disease ? serum immunoglobulin ( igg , igm , iga ) and complement ( c3 , c4 ) levels were measured by radial immunodiffusion technique in a group of 16 nigerian patients with tropical pyomyositis ( tp ) . sixteen healthy nigerians , age- and sex-matched with the patients , were also included in the study as control subjects ( cs ) . a significantly low level of circulating igm ( p less than 0.01 ) and elevation of the serum levels of igg ( p less than 0.01 ) and iga ( p less than 0.01 ) were observed in tp compared to cs . mean serum complement ( c3 , c4 ) levels were found to be similar in patients and controls . microbiological culture tests showed that 14 pus specimens ( 88 % ) and 3 blood specimens ( 19 % ) from the patients were positive for staphylococcus aureus . it was therefore proposed that igm antibody deficiency ( primary or acquired ) against s . aureus may be the cause of tropical pyomyositis in nigerians . 
immunological responses and the role of the paralyzing toxin in rabbits infested with rhipicephalus evertsi evertsi . twenty-nine rabbits were exposed to 4 infestations with 20 , 50 , and 100 adult red-legged ticks ( rhipicephalus evertsi evertsi ) . upon challenge , 16 rabbits ( 55 % ) contracted paralysis , and 14 of these ( 88 % ) died . most deaths occurred in rabbits challenged with 100 ticks . immunity to paralysis and subsequent resistance to tick feeding developed in the hosts that survived the initial challenge . antibody titers to a salivary gland antigen increased progressively as determined by the following tests : passive hemagglutination , agar gel double immunodiffusion , and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . rabbits challenged with 20 ticks displayed declining titers with advanced frequency of challenge and few of the rabbits in this group developed paralysis . there was no decline in antibody titers in groups of rabbits exposed to 50- and 100-tick loads . it is suggested that a certain quantum of antigen injected by the ticks is necessary for induction of immunity to paralysis . 
experimental studies on the transmission cycle of thogoto virus , a candidate orthomyxovirus , in rhipicephalus appendiculatus . thogoto ( tho ) virus , a candidate orthomyxovirus , replicated in and was transmitted by larvae , nymphs , and adults of the brown ear tick , rhipicephalus appendiculatus . larvae fed on viremic hamsters ( 10 ( 7-8 ) pfu / ml blood ) acquired an average of 10 ( 2.5 ) pfu per tick . following engorgement the titer dropped to 10 ( 1.9 ) pfu on day 2 but increased by day 6 to 10 ( 3.3 ) pfu . virus survived transstadially in these ticks as demonstrated by the fact that , on day 10 , newly moulted nymphs contained , on average , 10 ( 3.5 ) pfu / tick . when 10 such infected nymphs were placed on a hamster a fatal infection of the animal developed involving a viremia of 10 ( 6.7 ) pfu / ml blood . another group of 6 infected nymphs did not elicit a detectable viremia in a hamster , or cause death . however the animal seroconverted to tho , virus indicating that virus transmission had occurred . following acquisition of tho virus at the larval stage , virus was detected in adult ticks 138 days later . uninfected nymphs fed on viremic hamsters acquired an average of 10 ( 4 ) pfu / nymph . no virus was detected in the nymphs 4 days post-engorgement . virus was , however , recovered by 6 days post-engorgement ( 10 ( 4.7 ) pfu / nymph ) . virus persisted transstadially as shown by the presence of an average of 10 ( 3.4 ) pfu in newly moulted adults . three groups of these infected adults ( 5-6 ticks / group ) induced viremia in hamsters with blood titers of the order 10 ( 2.8-3.5 ) pfu / ml . virus persisted in engorged adults for up to 66 days following nymphal engorgement . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
dispersal and other population parameters of aedes aegypti in an african village and their possible significance in epidemiology of vector-borne diseases . dispersal of aedes aegypti aegypti adults within shauri moyo , an african village in the rabai area north of mombasa , kenya , was studied using the mark-release-recapture method . a total of 920 mosquitoes were captured and uniquely marked , of which 828 ( 90 % ) were released and 332 ( 40 % ) recaptured . a great majority of mosquitoes were recaptured once , but some individuals were recaptured up to 10 times . most females visited 1 or 2 houses ( 40.8 % , 44.9 % , respectively ) , but there were females that visited as many as 5 houses . mosquito movement among houses of the village is summarized in tables . dispersal ability of aedes aegypti females was d = 0.592 and males d = 0.433 . the maximum distance females and males moved per 24 hr was 154 m and 113 m , respectively . the mean distance rate was 57.0 m / day for females and 44.2 m / day for males . the size of the mosquito population at shauri moyo village was estimated to be 331.1 + / - 146.5 using the lincoln index method , 533.3 by the fisher and ford method , 270.3 + / - 179.5 by bailey 's triple catch method and 380.1 + / - 92.9 by the jolly-seber method . the mean female and male survival was 10.7 and 5.8 days , respectively . the maximum survival of females was 42 days and males 18 days . the daily survival of females and males estimated by the fisher and ford method was 0.825 and 0.693 , respectively . the daily survival estimated using the jolly-seber method was 0.852 for females and 0.532 for males . longevity is discussed in relation to extrinsic incubation periods of yellow fever and dengue viruses . the recapture rates , survivorship , and size of the village population indicate that the ae . aegypti population in shauri moyo village is fairly stable . presence or absence of blood in the stomach , and developmental stages of the ovaries were measured , showing that the majority of females fed twice and some fed as many as 3 times during one gonotrophic cycle . 
dengue 3 virus transmission in africa . the first known transmission of dengue 3 virus in africa was documented by virus isolation during an epidemic of dengue-like illness in pemba , mozambique , in late 1984 and early 1985. dengue 3 virus was the only serotype isolated . most patients appeared to be experiencing secondary flavivirus infections , but whether this was the result of previous dengue , yellow fever , or other flavivirus infection is not known . two cases of hemorrhagic disease with shock and death were associated with the epidemic . 
virus-vector-host relationships of aedes stimulans and jamestown canyon virus in a northern indiana enzootic focus . collections of hematophagous diptera at the kingsbury state fish and wildlife area in northern indiana between 1982 and 1984 yielded 118 , 972 mosquitoes from which 5 isolates of jamestown canyon virus and 3 isolates of trivittatus virus were obtained . all jamestown canyon isolates were from aedes stimulans , including 1 from a pool of newly emerged males and 2 from pools of newly emerged females . these 3 isolates suggest that jamestown canyon virus is transovarially transmitted by ae . stimulans . all isolates of trivittatus virus came from pools of ae . trivittatus . no isolates were obtained from greater than 4 , 000 tabanids collected along with the mosquitoes those years . transmission trials with field-collected newly emerged adult female ae . stimulans demonstrated a mean midgut infection rate of 44 % , a disseminated infection rate of 16 % , and an oral transmission rate of 12 % to suckling mice . precipitin tests of field-collected bloodfed female mosquitoes indicated that white-tailed deer were the preferred host for numerous mosquito species including ae . stimulans . the results of this study suggest that ae . stimulans is a primary vector of jamestown canyon virus and that transovarial transmission is the probable overwintering mechanism for this california group virus . 
experimental vertical transmission of saint louis encephalitis virus by florida mosquitoes . vertical transmission of st . louis encephalitis ( sle ) virus to f1 larval progeny was demonstrated in 8 species of mosquitoes which occur in florida : culex quinquefasciatus , cx . nigripalpus , cx . salinarius , cx . restuans , cx . opisthopus , anopheles quadrimaculatus , an . albimanus , and aedes taeniorhynchus . relatively high rates of such transmission were observed in ae . taeniorhynchus and vertical transmission to f1 adult progeny and venereal transmission from males to females also were demonstrated with this species . larval rearing temperature affected transstadial transmission of the virus in ae . taeniorhynchus , especially to the adult stage . such transmission was observed with a larval rearing temperature of 18 degrees c but not at 27 degrees c . because of the abundance and distribution of ae . taeniorhynchus in florida , and the relatively high rates of vertical transmission of sle virus observed in the present experiments , this mosquito species warrants further investigation as a possible overwintering host for the virus in that locality . 
passage of yellow fever virus : its effect on infection and transmission rates in aedes aegypti . the effect of successive lytic passage of yellow fever virus on mosquito infection and transmission rates in the vector , aedes aegypti , was determined . three strains of yellow fever virus from trinidad and peru were passaged five times in suckling mouse brains and seven times in bhk-21 cells . mosquitoes were fed meals containing passaged and unpassaged viruses and infection and transmission rates were compared . rates were similar for all but one of the three virus strains grown in both substrates with the exception of virus strain 1899 / 81 ( human isolate from peru ) passaged seven times in bhk-21 cells . infection rates declined from 62 % ( 109 / 177 ) to 35 % ( 61 / 176 ) , and transmission rates declined from 64 % ( 60 / 94 ) to 45 % ( 22 / 49 ) . the oligonucleotide fingerprint of strain 1899 / 81 passaged seven times in bhk-21 cells shared 98 % ( 45 / 46 ) of its large , t1-resistant oligonucleotides with the parent strain , indicating limited biochemical differences . the data suggest that uncloned yellow fever virus populations , passaged a limited number of times , and exhibiting some phenotypic changes , are representative of the original virus strain and can be used with a reasonable degree of confidence in vector competence studies . 
societal forces on surgery . 
thomas g . orr memorial lecture . newer antibiotics for the surgeon . 
comparative studies of computerized tomography and mediastinoscopy for the staging of bronchogenic carcinoma . the accuracy of mediastinal computerized tomographic scans for the staging of bronchogenic carcinoma varies between institutions . in the present study , the sensitivity rate was 57 percent , the specificity rate 69 percent , and the overall accuracy rate 64 percent , all of which were generally lower than rates reported in the recent literature . different scanning equipment , diagnostic criteria , and patient populations may all contribute to this variance . the data in this report suggest that tumor histologic type and location also influenced the accuracy of computerized tomography . on the basis of this study and review of the literature , it is recommended that any given institution assess the accuracy of its own computerized tomographic mediastinal scans before substituting scanning for mediastinoscopy in the preoperative staging of bronchogenic carcinoma . 
treatment of esophageal cancer : the continued need for surgical resection . we conclude that preoperative radiotherapy and chemotherapy is very likely to improve the length of survival in patients with squamous cell carcinoma undergoing surgical resection and decreases the incidence of symptomatic local recurrence requiring additional palliative treatment . a favorable tumor response to adjuvant therapy , however , did not significantly improve the survival curves in our study , does not guarantee complete tumor regression , and should not be cited as a basis for elimination of esophagectomy in treatment protocols . adenocarcinoma treated with surgical resection has a better prognosis than similarly treated squamous cell carcinoma , but has a poorer prognosis than squamous cell carcinoma treated with preoperative adjuvant therapy and surgical resection . 
is the treatment for thyroglossal duct cysts too extensive ? from 1970 to 1985 , 64 patients underwent surgical management for thyroglossal duct cysts at the university of oklahoma health sciences center . their ages ranged from 1 to 63 years with a mean of 12.4 years . ninety-one percent of the patients were available for follow-up . all patients underwent one of three forms of treatment : the classic sistrunk operation , a modified sistrunk operation , or excision of the cyst only . eleven percent had undergone a previous procedure . the majority of patients were found to have a cyst in the midline at the level of the hyoid bone . eighty-eight percent of the patients underwent excision of the midportion of the hyoid bone . there were no postoperative deaths and the perioperative complication rate was 20 percent , the majority being wound-related . all recurrences took place within 4 months of operation . factors that appeared to be associated with an increased risk of complications and recurrence included young patient age ( less than 10 years ) , rupture of the cyst at the time of operation , infection , and failure to excise the midportion of the hyoid bone and the suprahyoid tract . one patient was found to have a mixed papillary and follicular carcinoma in the thyroglossal duct . we support the original premise of sistrunk that " the cure of thyroglossal cyst are unsuccessful unless the epithelium-lined tract , running from the cyst to the foramen cecum is completely removed , " including the hyoid bone . 
post-thyroidectomy hypocalcemia . incidence and risk factors . two hundred twenty-one patients undergoing thyroidectomy were analyzed for factors increasing the risk of postoperative hypocalcemia . eighty-three percent of all patients experienced hypocalcemia postoperatively , with 13 percent requiring some treatment for symptoms . patients with advanced thyroid cancer , graves ' disease , or other manifestations of preoperative hyperthyroidism had significantly increased rates of hypocalcemia compared with patients with small cancers or benign euthyroid disease . total thyroidectomy , repeat thyroidectomy , and thyroidectomy plus neck dissection all significantly increased the incidence of permanent hypocalcemia , whereas lobectomy or subtotal thyroidectomy for benign euthyroid disease were low risk operations . inadvertent excision of more than one parathyroid gland during thyroidectomy also significantly increased the rate of permanent hypocalcemia . 
adenoma weight : a predictor of transient hypocalcemia after parathyroidectomy . to evaluate the relationship of parathyroid adenoma weight to perioperative serum calcium levels , 51 selected patients with pathologically confirmed single adenomas and minimal biopsy at operation were reviewed . three age- and sex-matched groups were established according to adenoma weight . compared with group 1 patients who had adenomas of less than 1 g , group 3 patients with adenomas of more than 2 g demonstrated significantly higher preoperative serum parathyroid hormone and calcium levels , and significantly lower preoperative serum phosphate levels . multiple regression analysis revealed a strong correlation between adenoma weight to preoperative parathyroid hormone and calcium levels ( r = 0.63 , p less than 0.001 ) . these results suggest that larger adenomas may be associated with a more severe form of primary hyperparathyroidism . the incidence of transient postoperative hypocalcemia in the 51 patients who underwent adenoma excision was 37 percent . permanent hypoparathyroidism did not develop in any of them . compared with group 1 patients , group 3 patients demonstrated a higher incidence of postoperative transient hypocalcemia ( 69 percent versus 14 percent in group 1 , p less than 0.001 ) and significantly lower mean serum calcium levels on the third and fourth postoperative days . increased adenoma weight may be a valuable aid in identifying those patients at risk for transient hypocalcemia after neck exploration . 
the many uses of the u tube . u tube placement was employed as an adjunct to complicated biliary procedures in 14 patients . we found the transhepatic tubes to be useful for stenting biliary anastomoses , maintaining biliary drainage , delivering localized irradiation , and acting as permanent external conduits . the tubes remained in placed an average of 15 months and as long as 40 months . the frequency of cholangitis was minimized by frequent tube exchange . the u-shaped configuration makes tube exchange easy and inexpensive to perform . 
microscopic transduodenal sphincteroplasty and transampullary septoplasty for papillary stenosis . recurrent , severe , and intractable symptoms of right upper quadrant abdominal pain without a clear cause are extremely frustrating to patients and their physicians . this study examines the use of strict preoperative criteria utilizing endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography , strictly defined clinical symptoms , and laboratory values to identify patients with hepatobiliary or pancreatic pain resulting from abnormalities of the papilla of vater and the duct of wirsung . microscopic sphincteroplasty techniques stressing complete transection of the muscular transampullary septum have been incorporated with strict preoperative screening criteria to produce significantly improved long-term results ( p greater than 0.005 ) . sixty-eight percent of 81 highly selected patients with at least a 6 month follow-up reported good results . ninety-four percent claimed the procedure was definitely of benefit . 
acute pancreatitis in elderly patients . pathogenesis and outcome . forty patients over 70 years of age with acute pancreatitis were studied . the most common cause of pancreatitis was biliary tract disease ( 14 patients , 35 percent ) . twelve patients ( 30 percent ) were discharged with a diagnosis of idiopathic pancreatitis , but tests such as endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography that might have established the cause of disease were frequently not employed . eight of the 40 patients died , for a mortality rate of 20 percent . significant morbidity occurred in an additional seven ( 17.5 percent ) . multisystem failure was the cause of death in all eight patients , and only two patients with multisystem failure survived . the mortality rate was significantly higher in those patients with postoperative pancreatitis . acute pancreatitis in the elderly carries a grave prognosis . all patients should undergo thorough evaluation , as biliary tract disease is the most common cause . cholecystectomy should be performed in those with biliary disease to prevent recurrent attacks . 
role of routine emergency cervical radiography in head trauma . this review of 406 patients with head injury examines the role of emergency cervical radiography in head trauma and the frequency of associated cervical spine injury . of 293 patients who had emergency cervical radiography ( 72 percent ) , 8 showed some abnormality , but only 5 ( 1.2 percent ) were significant for cervical spine injury . all eight patients were , however , clinically suspected to have associated cervical spine injury before emergency cervical radiography . one hundred thirteen patients ( 28 percent ) did not undergo emergency cervical radiography based on clinical evaluation , and none was subsequently found to have a missed cervical spine injury . there was no correlation between severity of head injury and the presence of associated cervical spine injury ( p greater than 0.16 ) . head trauma is infrequently associated with cervical spine injury and when present is usually not clinically occult . emergency cervical radiography is not efficacious and should not be routine in the emergency room management of head trauma . when associated cervical spine injury is clinically suspected , adequate cervical immobilization should be maintained and cervical radiography performed on a low priority basis . head injury due to automobile and pedestrian or motorcycle and automobile accident may be more likely to be associated with cervical spine injury . 
penetrating wounds to the anterior chest . analysis of thoracotomy and laparotomy . this study of the records of 193 consecutive patients admitted for penetrating anterior chest wounds was carried out to specifically define the need for emergent thoracotomy or laparotomy . the mechanism of injury was a stab wound in 119 patients and a gunshot wound in 74 patients . seventy-three of the patients ( 38 percent ) required either early thoracotomy ( 21 percent ) or laparotomy ( 17 percent ) . in the upper chest region , 83 percent of the operations were thoracotomies , whereas in the lower chest region , 81 percent were laparotomies . pericardial tamponade , chest tube output , and hypovolemic shock comprised 91 percent of the decisive signs for thoracotomy . the predominant reason for laparotomy was diagnostic peritoneal lavage ( 63 percent of patients ) . plain abdominal roentgenograms were helpful to confirm diaphragmatic missile traverse . our findings support selective operative management of anterior chest wounds as guided by injury mechanism and entrance location . 
liberal use of emergency center thoracotomy . emergency center thoracotomy is a heroic technique of resuscitation and treatment which was revived in the 1960s to improve the survival of patients presenting with cardiac wounds . with excellent survival rates attained in such patients , the technique was extended to victims of trauma with other mechanisms and locations of injury . at present , the technique has a survival rate ranging from 3 to 20 percent ; however , most recent series of unselected patients show a survival rate of 8 to 10 percent . in this series , there were no survivors when emergency center thoracotomy was utilized after a period of prehospital cardiopulmonary resuscitation . patients with isolated stab wounds to the thorax , especially those with cardiac injuries , had the best survival rate of any subgroup in the series . if emergency center thoracotomy was utilized for patients with some vital signs on admission and with neck or truncal gunshot wounds , blunt trauma , or abdominal trauma , the survival rate decreased to 2 to 4 percent ; however , the small but constant survival rate in all of these groups justifies its continued use . 
traumatic rupture of the aorta : still a lethal injury . a 10 year retrospective review of a community experience with blunt trauma of the aorta has been presented . we found that an overall mortality of 84 percent was associated with this injury . fourteen patients reached the emergency department with stable vital signs . of these patients , 10 underwent successful treatment ( 71 percent ) . despite advances in many areas of trauma care , blunt trauma of the aorta remains a highly lethal injury . however , this review has demonstrated that with prompt diagnosis and treatment , a significant number of these patients can be salvaged . it is for this reason that we have adopted an aggressive approach toward victims of blunt trauma . we now proceed with diagnostic aortography in any patient who has undergone a significant deceleration injury . 
fluid resuscitation in thermally injured children . the fluid resuscitation requirements and mortality from thermal injury were reviewed in 177 children admitted to the intermountain burn center over a 7 year period . mean burn size was 27 percent of the total body surface area , whereas the mean full-thickness burn size was 13 percent of total body surface area . twelve percent of children had associated inhalation injuries . the mean amount of fluid received during burn shock resuscitation was 5.8 + / - 0.25 ml / kg per percentage of total body surface area burned and the mean amount of sodium , 1.06 + / - 0.04 meq / kg per percentage of total body surface area burned . there was no morbidity due to fluid overload . the presence of inhalation injury did not increase fluid or sodium requirements , but did increase mortality ( 29 percent versus 7 percent , p less than 0.05 ) . the resuscitative mortality rate for all pediatric patients was 7 percent , the in-hospital mortality rate was 15 percent , and the 50 percent mortality burn correlate for these patients was 64 percent of the total body surface area . data on children with burns were compared with an unselected , concurrent group of adult burn patients using an analysis of covariance . fluid and sodium requirements were significantly higher for children , but there was no difference in the length of resuscitation or mortality rate . we conclude that children require much more fluid for resuscitation from burn shock than adults with similar burns . appropriately aggressive fluid therapy for acute thermal injury in children is essential to achieve an acceptable survival rate in these patients . 
significance of omental evisceration in abdominal stab wounds . over a 4 year period , 115 patients presented to parkland memorial hospital with omental evisceration after a stab wound to the abdomen . all patients underwent exploratory celiotomy . serious abdominal injuries were found in 86 patients ( 75 percent ) , and half of these had two or more organs injured . the injury rate in patients with omental herniation was three times that of patients with simple stab wounds . no preoperative evaluation technique was reliable in identifying patients without injury . there were no deaths and only a 7 percent incidence of minor complications in patients who underwent negative exploration . our data suggest that omental evisceration in a patient with an abdominal stab wound portends potentially serious injury and supports the policy of expeditious celiotomy . 
single agent cephalosporin prophylaxis for penetrating abdominal trauma . results and comment on the emergence of the enterococcus . multiple studies have shown that the incidence of infectious complications after penetrating abdominal wounds are decreased by the perioperative administration of antibiotics . in this study of three separate single cephalosporin agents ( cefotaxime , cefoxitin , and moxalactam ) given for a 48 hour period in patients who sustained perforating gastrointestinal wounds , uncomplicated recoveries occurred in 93 percent of all patients . the rates of uncomplicated recovery were significantly different for the three groups ; however , patients with major intraabdominal vascular injuries were more common in the cefoxitin-treated group . one disturbing feature was the presence of enterococci in 57 percent of isolates from wound infections and 60 percent of isolates from intraabdominal abscesses . enterococci as sole isolates were found in one of two wound infections and three of four intraabdominal abscesses in the moxalactam-treated group . 
planned reoperation for generalized intraabdominal infection . intraabdominal infection remains a common cause of death in surgical patients . progress in this area with improved survival rates is difficult to demonstrate despite the use of antibiotics , nutritional support , and aggressive maintenance of function of failed organs . this report documents our experience with planned reoperation to cleanse the abdominal cavity in 77 patients with generalized intraabdominal infection . in 34 of the patients , reoperation to cleanse the abdominal cavity was performed every 24 to 48 hours after the first operation until the abdominal cavity was judged to be clean . forty-three patients underwent a single operation for intraabdominal contamination and were treated expectantly , only undergoing reoperation for signs of recurrent infection . in all patients , the hole in the intestinal tract was controlled primarily by stoma formation at the initial operation to treat intraabdominal infection . patients with appendiceal disease were excluded . the severity of illness in the two patient groups was compared by a modified acute physiologic score . planned reoperation was not associated with improvement in survival when compared with patients managed expectantly . patients managed by planned reoperation had significantly more laparotomies than patients managed expectantly without improving survival . the results of this study disclosed that empiric reoperation to clean the abdominal cavity in patients with generalized intraabdominal infection produced no improvement in survival when compared with observation and reoperation when indicated . 
detailed comparison of regional and general anesthesia for carotid endarterectomy . forty-one variables were examined in 75 patients who underwent carotid endarterectomy to determine if significant differences were present between 45 patients who had general anesthesia and 30 patients who had regional anesthesia . the two groups were similar in terms of age , existing medical illnesses , neurologic presentation , and angiographic severity of the carotid lesions . there were no differences between the two groups for operative time , anesthesia time , blood loss , maximum or minimum blood pressures , postoperative hemodynamic data , or the requirement for or duration of intravenous pressor or antihypertensive medications . one patient in the regional group had a postoperative neurologic deficit which resolved in 1 month . three patients in the general group had cardiovascular complications . postoperative hospital stay was significantly longer in the general anesthesia group ( 5.6 to 3.2 days , p = 0.003 ) . regional and general anesthesia produce similar perioperative hemodynamic and surgical outcomes , but regional anesthesia results in a shorter hospital stay and less cardiovascular morbidity in this high risk population . 
intraoperative local anesthetic injection of the carotid sinus nerve . a prospective , randomized study . one hundred patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy under general anesthesia were prospectively randomized to receive either a local anesthetic injection of their carotid sinus nerve with bupivacaine ( marcaine ) or no injection . systolic blood pressure and pulse rate were recorded before injection and at 5 and 30 minutes after injection . the need for intraoperative and postoperative use of systemic vasopressor and vasodilator medications was recorded for each group as was the incidence of arrhythmias , neurologic complications , and myocardial infarctions . intraoperative local anesthetic injection of the carotid sinus nerve did not significantly influence the intraoperative pulse rate or incidence of hypotension . it did , however , significantly increase the incidence of intraoperative hypertension and the need for systemic vasodilator medications intraoperatively . the incidence of postoperative hypotension ( 6 percent of patients ) , hypertension ( 34 percent ) , arrhythmias ( 6 percent ) , cerebrovascular accidents ( 1 percent ) , transient ischemic attacks ( 3.1 percent ) , and myocardial infarctions ( 2 percent ) were not significantly influenced by intraoperative local anesthetic injection of the carotid sinus nerve . intraoperative and postoperative hypotension did not cause morbidity in this series , however , local anesthetic injection was associated with a significant incidence of perioperative hypertension . routine prophylactic local anesthetic injection of the carotid sinus nerve cannot be recommended in view of its detrimental effects in relation to the development of hypertension . 
is external carotid endarterectomy a durable procedure ? thirteen patients with internal carotid occlusion underwent 14 primary external carotid revascularization procedures over a 31 month period . ten patients had obliteration of their internal carotid stump combined with patch angioplasty of the external carotid artery , and 3 had vein bypasses from the common carotid artery to the external carotid artery . eleven patients were symptomatic with either amaurosis fugax or hemispheric transient ischemic attacks . two patients were asymptomatic . all patients had serial carotid noninvasive tests ( b-mode ultrasonography , spectral analysis , and oculoplethysmography ) . the mean follow-up was 22 months . recurrent amaurosis fugax secondary to recurrent stenoses developed in two patients . these were correctly predicted by b-mode imaging and altered flow characteristics on spectral analysis . both patients were successfully treated with reoperative procedures to prevent failure of the primary reconstruction . external carotid revascularization is a safe and durable procedure , but careful periodic follow-up is necessary to detect stenoses developing at or remote from the initial operative site . carotid noninvasive tests appear to be helpful in detecting recurrent disease . carotid revascularization is superior to other forms of therapy in patients who have development of neurologic symptoms ipsilateral to a chronically occluded internal carotid artery . 
operative closure of patent ductus arteriosus in premature infants in the neonatal intensive care unit . fifty-two premature infants underwent hemoclip closure of patent ductus arteriosus in the neonatal intensive care unit after a brief trial of fluid restriction and diuretics . indomethacin was used in only four patients . the median time from diagnosis to operation was 3 days . there were no deaths directly attributable to operation . nine operative complications developed in nine patients ( 17 percent ) . there were no surgical infections . complications related to prematurity resulted in 20 deaths ( 38 percent ) . patent ductus arteriosus closure in the neonatal intensive care unit prevented the complications of hypothermia , inadvertent extubation , and interruption of vascular access and monitoring . early operative closure in the neonatal intensive care unit is the treatment of choice in most premature infants with patent ductus arteriosus . 
factors affecting initial and 6 month patency rates after intraarterial thrombolysis with high dose urokinase . eighty-five patients who underwent 100 transcatheter intraarterial thrombolytic infusions for occlusions of suprainguinal and infrainguinal grafts and arteries were analyzed to determine the initial and 6 month results . analysis demonstrated that suprainguinal occlusions of arteries and grafts were most likely to both lyse ( 89 percent ) and remain patent for 6 months ( 86 percent ) . arteries and graft occlusions had approximately the same incidence of thrombolytic recanalization ( 79 percent versus 74 percent ) . arteries , however , had a higher incidence of 6 month patency than grafts ( 71 percent versus 41 percent ) . the inability to clear all flow-limiting lesions from the reopened portion of the vascular tree makes it highly likely that reocclusion will occur before 6 months . as a group , infrainguinal synthetic bypass grafts had the lowest patency rate at 6 months ( 26 percent ) , and suprainguinal arteries the highest rate ( 92 percent ) . 
vertical ring gastroplasty for morbid obesity . five year experience with 1 , 463 patients . vertical gastroplasty is a safer and simpler operation than gastric bypass for morbid obesity , but to produce permanent long-term weight loss , a permanent support is needed for the outlet of the newly created gastric pouch in vertical gastroplasty . the most important finding in this study of 1 , 463 patients with vertical gastroplasties was the development of a safe and practical use of a silastic ring to permanently support the outlet . using an uncovered silastic ring , erosion of the ring has not been observed and long-term weight loss of 36.7 percent of original weight or 63.4 percent of excess weight has been obtained , which is equivalent to that reported for gastric bypass or other gastric reduction procedures . in addition , lower mortality and lower morbidity rates have been achieved than those reported in studies using other gastric reduction methods . silastic ring vertical gastroplasty with an uncovered ring is the safest and most effective of the gastric reduction procedures in our experience . 
direct portacaval anastomoses are safe and effective in patients with previous abdominal operations . direct side-to-side portacaval anastomosis is employed exclusively in our institution to control variceal hemorrhage regardless of previous operative history . a consecutive , unselected group of 152 such patients was reviewed to ascertain the effect of previous major abdominal operation on operative difficulty and outcome . fifty patients , with previous operations ranging from biliary and gastric procedures to thrombosed distal splenorenal shunts , were compared with 102 previously unoperated patients . this comparison led to the conclusions that side-to-side direct portacaval anastomosis may be carried out in patients with a previous major abdominal operation without an increased risk in mortality or morbidity , and that although intraoperative blood loss and transfusion requirements were increased in previously operated patients , these factors ( along with operative time ) could be minimized by use of intraoperative vasopressin and electrocautery . thus , alternative shunting procedures , with their increased thrombosis and rebleeding rates , need not be considered in such patients . 
demographic characteristics of gallbladder cancer in an area endemic for biliary calculi . a 10 year retrospective study of 134 patients in whom gallbladder cancer developed in el paso county was undertaken . improved survival was noted in younger , female , and hispanic patients , which appears to be a unique demographic characteristic of gallbladder cancer in an area endemic for biliary calculi . these prolonged survival data may all be explained by early diagnosis . in addition , there is suggestive evidence that a multidisciplinary approach of operation plus adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy results in greater length of survival . 
ketamine by continuous infusion in status asthmaticus . a 13-year-old girl was admitted to the intensive care unit with status asthmaticus . conventional bronchodilator therapy failed to relieve her bronchospasm . in order to try and avoid artificial ventilation , a continuous intravenous infusion of ketamine was used with success . the total dose rate was 40 micrograms / kg minute for a period of 8 hours ; this was given at a decreasing rate . she regained consciousness 30 minutes after the end of the infusion and became well orientated after one hour . ketamine is a useful drug in the intensive treatment of status asthmaticus and should be tried before a decision is taken to start mechanical ventilation . 
cervical epidural anaesthesia in carotid artery surgery . the successful anaesthetic management using a cervical epidural technique is reported in three patients undergoing carotid artery surgery . adequate analgesia was obtained in all cases and the adequacy of cerebral blood flow was easily judged by the patient 's state of consciousness . cervical epidural anaesthesia could be a safe and reasonable technique for the management of patients who need carotid artery surgery . 
delayed convulsions following enflurane anaesthesia . 
anaesthesia and the subclavian steal syndrome . anaesthesia in two patients with subclavian steal syndrome is described . both patients showed an interesting response to hyperventilation . the mechanism of this response and its implications for the anaesthetist are discussed . 
dinamap arm and thigh arterial pressure measurement . two automatic arterial pressure monitors ( model 1846 p ) were used in 30 patients to measure arterial pressures and heart rates in the thigh and arm . significant differences were found in thigh-arm systolic ( p less than 0.001 ) and diastolic pressures ( p less than 0.05 ) . arm pressures could be predicted from leg pressures and correction factors are suggested . mean pressures in the thigh approximated more closely to the calculated mean pressures than in the arm . these differences were of little clinical importance . 
pulse oximetry . an assessment in anaesthetised dental patients . the applications of a pulse oximeter were studied in dental day case surgery using nasal mask anaesthesia . changes in arterial oxygen saturation were sensitively and rapidly detected , in the absence of cyanosis . impaired oxygenation can be detected before cyanosis develops . 
some aspects of epidural block provided for elective caesarean section . we present here clinical data from 993 patients who were destined to undergo elective caesarean section under epidural analgesia . in 29 cases the attempt to provide an epidural was abandoned before the operation started . in regard to this , the importance of monitoring the fetal heart rate during initiation of the epidural is emphasised . in 10 cases general anaesthesia was induced after delivery , and in a further 108 cases supplemental analgesia was administered , either systemically , by inhalation or by an additional epidural top-up , after delivery . satisfactory analgesia throughout the operation was achieved in 87.8 % . in an appreciable proportion of cases the recommended maximum dose of bupivacaine , and the recommended maximum rate of bupivacaine administration , were exceeded without apparent complication . there was a tendency for the volume of hartmann 's solution infused intravenously before and during initiation of the epidural to be increased throughout the period under review ( 1971-85 ) . the prevalence of hypotension diminished during that period . characteristics of the data did not permit a close analysis of the main factors which could have led to an episode of maternal hypotension . however , it did appear that such an episode could be ascribed to too brief an interval between the first and second , or the second and third top-up doses . the frequency with which blood was transfused during operation was markedly lower than that noted in a concurrent series of elective sections conducted under general anaesthesia . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
effects of atracurium on intracranial pressure in man . intravenous administration of 0.6 mg / kg of atracurium to nine patients did not produce any significant change in intracranial , mean arterial or cerebral perfusion pressures . in another three patients , anaesthesia was induced with thiopentone 5 mg / kg after muscle relaxation with atracurium 1 mg / kg . intracranial pressure was below pre-induction levels in two patients whose tracheas were intubated 90 seconds after atracurium . the vocal cords were not fully relaxed at 90 seconds in the third patient . intubation at 150 seconds in this patient was associated with a rise in intracranial pressure above pre-induction values . 
anaesthesia for transoral craniocervical surgery . transoral surgery on lesions in the craniocervical region has been performed on 25 patients in this unit . the anaesthetic management is presented . tracheostomy and nasotracheal intubation have both been used . peroperative monitoring of cord compression remains an important and only partly solved problem . there were two deaths as a result of anaesthesia and surgery , and these are discussed . 
compound sodium lactate ( hartmann 's ) solution . caution : risk of clotting . we have observed blood clotting in blood administration sets where hartmann 's solution ( travenol ) has preceded blood transfusion . this is due to calcium ions ( ca++ ) contained in the hartmann 's solution and is more likely to occur at 37 degrees c . we suggest that this potential hazard be more widely realised and that the practice cease . 
deviation from international colour codes [ letter ] 
orientating under anaesthesia [ letter ] 
nasotracheal intubation : another approach [ letter ] 
psoas compartment block [ letter ] 
difficult extubation due to a kinked pilot tube [ letter ] 
kinking of epidural catheters [ letter ] 
lumbar sympathetic block in the sitting position [ letter ] 
rusty water in an oxygen flowmeter [ letter ] 
children and explosive anaesthetics [ letter ] 
another complication of central venous catheterisation [ letter ] 
armoured tubes are necessary for neuroanaesthesia [ letter ] 
the law and the practice of anaesthesia [ editorial ] 
oxygenation during electroconvulsive therapy . a comparison of two anaesthetic techniques . oxyhaemoglobin saturation was monitored continuously during electroconvulsive therapy in two groups of patients . all patients were anaesthetised using methohexitone ( 40-100 mg ) and suxamethonium ( 25-50 mg ) . in group 1 ( n = 48 ) , the patients ' lungs were ventilated manually with oxygen in air ( 40-50 % ) during the modified convulsion . in group 2 ( n = 47 ) , the convulsion was allowed to subside before recommencing manual ventilation with a similar gas mixture . eight patients in group 1 and seven patients in group 2 received more than one shock and were excluded , leaving 40 patients in each group . in group 1 , one patient had a minimum oxygen saturation of less than 90 % after the electric shock as opposed to 11 in group 2 ( p less than 0.01 ) . five of the patients in group 2 had a saturation of less than 80 % . it is concluded that patients undergoing electroconvulsive therapy should be ventilated with an oxygen-enriched gas mixture during the convulsion induced by the electric shock in order to avoid hypoxaemia . 
ilioinguinal nerve block in children . a comparison with caudal block for intra and postoperative analgesia . fifty-two boys undergoing herniotomy , orchidopexy or ligation of patent processus vaginalis under general anaesthesia had supplementary analgesia ; 26 had a caudal epidural block and 26 an ilioinguinal block . analgesia was assessed both during and after surgery . ilioinguinal block provides a useful alternative to caudal block . 
buccal morphine premedication . a double-blind comparison with intramuscular morphine . fifty patients were admitted to a double-blind , double-dummy study comparing buccal morphine 10 mg tablets and intramuscular morphine sulphate 13.5 mg as premedication . this investigation was performed on the basis of favourable results obtained in an earlier 25 patient pilot study designed to examine the efficacy , safety and patient acceptability of buccal morphine 10 mg tablets as pre-anaesthetic medication . both studies and sets of results are presented and show that , whilst buccal morphine is a safe alternative means of delivering opioid premedication , which is acceptable to the majority of patients , an equivalent intramuscular morphine dose is nevertheless a more effective premedicant in terms of anxiolysis and wakefulness , as assessed by linear analogue scores . pharmacokinetic considerations are advanced both to explain the differing clinical efficacies of the two means of morphine administration and to indicate that improved per- and immediate postoperative analgesia might be obtainable in patients premedicated with buccal morphine . 
distribution of evoked paraesthesiae and effectiveness of brachial plexus block . the distribution of paraesthesiae evoked by a low power nerve stimulator during performance of supraclavicular brachial plexus block was studied in 120 patients . evoked paraesthesiae in the distribution of the median nerve was associated with a significant improvement in effectiveness of the block when compared with evoked paraesthesiae in the ulnar and radial distributions . a possible explanation for this finding is proposed . 
potentiation of epidural opioids with epidural droperidol . a one year retrospective study . during a period of one year , 119 patients with chronic pain received injections of opioids via a catheter inserted in the lumbar epidural space . twenty-three patients ( 19 % ) showed evidence of tolerance and were given droperidol 1.25-5.0 mg epidurally . in 20 patients in this study , there was a significant reduction in the number of epidural opioid injections . six patients complained of excessive sedation , which disappeared when the dose of droperidol was reduced , although this did not affect the analgesia . one patient given an accidental overdose of droperidol developed reversible parkinsonism . it is concluded that epidural administration of the dopamine antagonist droperidol may be beneficial as supplementary medication to epidural opioids when tolerance develops . 
narcotic-induced choledochoduodenal sphincter spasm reversed by naloxone . a case report and review . a case report of biliary colic induced by narcotic premedication and reversed by naloxone administration is described and the literature reviewed . 
high frequency jet ventilation in fat embolism syndrome . the use of high frequency jet ventilation in the management of a patient with fat embolism syndrome is described . its principal advantage over conventional intermittent positive pressure ventilation is a reduction in the amount of sedation necessary . 
the management of labour using continuous lumbar epidural analgesia in a patient with a malignant cerebral tumour . a mother presented at 28 weeks with epileptiform convulsions which were due to a malignant cerebral tumour . labour and delivery at 34 weeks were managed under epidural analgesia . the infant was healthy , but the mother died several days later following cerebral decompression . 
schwannoma of the vagus nerve . a case is described in which severe bradycardia complicated removal of a schwannoma of the vagus nerve in the parapharyngeal space . the presentation of this rare tumour is discussed . 
respiratory monitoring with a new impedance plethysmograph . a new impedance plethymograph respiratory monitor , ( ar-8800 ) , was tested on anaesthetised dogs . decreases in tidal volume and total apnoea were brought about by partial and complete airway obstruction and by partial and total muscle paralysis . the changes in respiration were reliably detected by the monitor and its alarms activated within 15-20 seconds . the misinterpretation of gross body movement as normal breathing did not occur . our findings suggest that the ar-8800 is a safe and dependable monitor which has distinct advantages and may be of particular use in the monitoring of patients at risk of developing respiratory depression or obstruction , whether in the intensive care unit , the general ward or at home . 
sleep and comfort after caesarean section . to compare postoperative well-being after general and epidural anaesthesia , 58 women undergoing caesarean section were divided into a general anaesthetic group receiving intramuscular opioid postoperatively ( 26 ) , and an epidural group receiving morphine via the epidural route ( 32 ) . the epidural group required less analgesia ( p less than 0.01 at 0.5 and 8 hours , p less than 0.001 at 4 hours ) . there was no difference in the use of oral analgesics . at 1 , 4 and 24 hours after delivery more patients in the general anaesthesia group described themselves as very comfortable ( p less than 0.05 ) . more in the epidural group had a very good night 's sleep during each night studied . patients in the epidural group were slower to use the ward toilet ( p less than 0.01 ) and had more itching ( p less than 0.001 ) . our conclusion is that patients progressed well in both groups . 
can epidural catheters penetrate dura mater ? an anatomical study . a study using postmortem dura mater and arachnoid mater showed that catheter perforation of dura did not occur . in contrast , perforation of arachnoid proved easy . 
cardiovascular response to intubation [ letter ] 
caudal epidurals--a furthur caution [ letter ] 
a rare cause of unexpected difficult intubation [ letter ] 
epidural test doses in obstetrics--let us face facts [ letter ] 
adrenaline and acute anaphylactoid reactions [ letter ] 
anaphylaxis and precurarisation [ letter ] 
an ideal agent for drawover anaesthesia ? [ letter ] 
paradoxical air embolism during hip surgery [ letter ] 
two percent lignocaine spinal anaesthesia [ letter ] 
sag-m blood [ letter ] 
butterflies and guinea pigs [ letter ] 
are studies of neuromuscular blocking drugs and their antagonists unnecessarily confusing ? [ editorial ] 
recovery times following edrophonium and neostigmine reversal of pancuronium , atracurium , and vecuronium steady-state infusions . the ability of edrophonium and neostigmine to antagonize nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockade produced by steady-state infusions of atracurium , pancuronium , and vecuronium was studied in 71 adult patients anesthetized with nitrous oxide and halothane . infusion rates of blocking drugs were adjusted so that single twitch depression as measured by the evoked integrated emg of the hypothenar muscles was kept at 10 % of control . two minutes after the termination of the infusion either edrophonium ( 0.75 mg / kg ) or neostigmine ( 0.05 mg / kg ) was administered . single twitch depression and train-of-four ( t4 / t1 ) fade was recorded during the recovery period . t4 / t1 fade ratios observed at 20 min postreversal were 0.80 ( atracurium-edrophonium ) ; 0.76 ( vecuronium-edrophonium ) ; 0.44 ( pancuronium-edrophonium ) ; 0.95 ( atracurium-neostigmine ) ; 0.89 ( vecuronium-neostigmine ) ; and 0.68 ( pancuronium-neostigmine ) . under conditions of this study neostigmine produced more rapid and complete recovery than did edrophonium . although edrophonium produced adequate antagonism of atracurium if 20-30 min were allowed to elapse , edrophonium reversal of pancuronium was rarely acceptable even at 30 min . increasing the dose of edrophonium to 1.0 mg / kg produced single twitch values of 0.90 at 5 min postreversal but did not increase the rate of recovery of the train-of-four fade ratio . neostigmine reversal of pancuronium , on the other hand , generally produced t4 / t1 ratios of greater than 0.70 in 20-30 min . although the pattern of recovery seen after reversal of vecuronium was in general quite similar to that seen after atracurium , two patients in the vecuronium-edrophonium group showed delayed recovery and also failed to respond significantly to subsequent doses of neostigmine . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
relationship of train-of-four ratio to twitch depression during pancuronium-induced neuromuscular blockade . the relationship of train-of-four ( tof ) ratio to the depression of the first twitch ( td ) was investigated in 16 patients given pancuronium in doses insufficient to eliminate the fourth response in the train . in ten patients the block was allowed to spontaneously recover ( group 1 ) and in six it was reversed with neostigmine ( group 2 ) once maximum depression of tof ratio had occurred . maximum depression of the first response occurred in 6.5 + / - 4.3 min ( mean + / - sd ) . maximum depression of the tof ratio was not present until 28.0 + / - 11.0 min . tof ratio was usually still decreasing when recovery of td had begun . however , once the tof ratio began to recover , the recovery rates for td and tof ratio were similar in both the spontaneously recovering and the reversed groups . tof ratio at complete td recovery was 74.9 + / - 15.7 and 86.2 + / - 15.4 % for the two groups . a kinetic analysis yielded significantly different elimination rate constants for the two effects from the " effect compartment . " these findings suggest that these two effects of pancuronium are exerted at different sites . 
effects of thiopental , fentanyl , and etomidate on upper extremity somatosensory evoked potentials in humans . the effects of three anesthetic induction agents on somatosensory evoked potentials ( sep ) were assessed in unpremedicated patients who were without neurologic abnormality of the upper extremities . sep was assessed by stimulation of the nondominant median nerve and responses were recorded over erbs point ( n10 ) , second cervical vertebra ( n14 ) , and the contralateral cortex ( p15 , n20 , p23 latencies , and p15-n20 and n20-p23 amplitudes ) . nine patients received thipental ( 4 mg / kg , iv bolus ) , nine patients received fentanyl ( 25 micrograms / kg , iv bolus ) , and nine patients received etomidate ( 0.4 mg / kg , iv bolus ) . sep was assessed before and after drug administration at motor threshold stimulus intensity . thiopental increased the latency of n10 , n14 , and n20 . the amplitudes of n10- , n14- , and scalp-recorded waves were not altered by thiopental . fentanyl increased n20 and p23 latency and decreased the amplitude of p15-n20 . etomidate increased latency of n20 and p23 without alteration of latencies of n10 or n14 and increased the amplitude of p15-n20 and n20-p23 , while the amplitude of n10 was unchanged and the amplitude of n14 was decreased . it is concluded that thiopental or fentanyl causes only modest alterations in early waves of upper extremity sep , whereas etomidate increases the amplitude of scalp-recorded waves . the effect of etomidate on sep may make diagnosis of neurologic injury more difficult because of the changing waveform . 
effects of fructose-1 , 6-diphosphate , glucose , and saline on cardiac resuscitation . severe hypoxemia causes respiratory and cardiac arrest , in part , because severe hypoxemia decreases glycolysis and adenosine triphosphate ( atp ) production by a lactic acid-induced decrease in the activity of phosphofructokinase and glyceraldehyde-3-p dehydrogenase . fructose-1 , 6-diphosphate ( fdp ) administration increases the atp concentration of blood . the authors hypothesized that fdp might increase the number of rabbits that could be resuscitated from hypoxemic cardiac arrest . to test this hypothesis , heart rate , arterial pressure , left ventricular end-diastolic pressure , and blood gases and ph were measured during normoxemia ( fio2 = 0.21 ) and again during hypoxemia ( fio2 = 0.04 ) in 28 adult , white , new zealand rabbits anesthetized with pentobarbital . with the onset of hypoxemia , we gave either 40 mg / kg of 5 % fdp ( n = 10 ) , 5 % glucose ( n = 11 ) , or an equal volume ( 2.5 ml ) of normal saline ( n = 7 ) intravenously and began a continuous infusion of 2.0 mg x kg-1 x min-1 of the same sugar or 0.12 ml / min of saline . fdp-treated rabbits breathed for 20.9 + / - 4.9 ( mean + / - sem ) min after initiation of hypoxemia ; glucose-treated rabbits breathed for 1.4 + / - 0.2 min , and saline-treated rabbits breathed 10.3 + / - 4 min . cardiac arrest occurred 2.5 + / - 0.5 min after the onset of respiratory arrest in fdp-treated rabbits , 4.1 + / - 0.2 min in glucose-treated rabbits , and 2.9 + / - 0.4 min in saline-treated rabbits . we could resuscitate all ten fdp-treated rabbits ; two of 11 glucose-treated ( fdp vs . glucose , p less than 0.001 ) ; and one of seven saline-treated rabbits ( fdp vs . saline , p less than 0.001 ) from cardiac arrest . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
electrical correlates of brain injury resulting from severe hypotension and hemodilution in monkeys . the effects of hypotension , hemodilution , and their combination on the relationship between concurrent brain electrical activity and resulting brain injury were studied in anesthetized monkeys . the authors compared changes in the electroencephalogram and somatosensory and auditory evoked potentials with eventual neuropathologic outcome . our goals were : 1 ) to define the margin of safety for the monkey brain during hemodilution and hypotension under several simulated clinical conditions ; and 2 ) to determine whether noninvasive measurements of brain electrical activity can predict ischemic brain cell damage . forty-one monkeys were anesthetized with halothane ( 0.8 vol % inspired ) and ventilated mechanically . arterial hypotension was induced with trimethaphan ( 25 + / - 8 mmhg mean arterial blood pressure [ mabp ] for 30 min ) . hemodilution was induced by replacing blood with lactated ringer 's solution ( 14 + / - 2 % hematocrit for 1 h ) . combined hemodilution and hypotension consisted of 30 min of hemodilution alone followed by superimposing hypotension for 30 min ( 16 + / - 3 % hematocrit and 29 + / - 5 mmhg mabp ) . ten monkeys died following severe hypotension alone or combined hemodilution and hypertension as a consequence of cardiac arrest or undetermined ( possibly neurologic ) causes . no histologic evidence of ischemic brain cell injury was found in surviving monkeys subjected to hemodilution or hypotension alone . neuropathologic alterations in the cerebral cortex , cerebellum , hippocampus and globus pallidus as well as neurologic and behavioral deficits were found in seven of 16 surviving monkeys subjected to both hemodilution and hypotension . these findings resulted from combinations of hematocrit less than 20 % and mabp below 40 mmhg . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
reproductive and teratogenic effects of lidocaine in sprague-dawley rats . the reproductive and teratogenic effects of lidocaine were studied in 155 sprague-dawley rats chronically implanted with osmotic minipumps . three different lidocaine doses were used as follows : a low dose ( 100 mg x kg-1 x day-1 ) ; an intermediate dose ( 250 mg x kg-1 x day-1 ) ; and a high dose ( 500 mg x kg-1 x day-1 ) . in the low and intermediate dose groups , lidocaine was administered for two weeks before mating and throughout pregnancy to evaluate reproductive and teratogenic effects . in the high-dose group , lidocaine was administered from days 3 to 17 of pregnancy to evaluate teratogenic effects . on day 21 , cesarean section was performed and all of the 1 , 040 offspring , including those from control and positive control ( retinoic acid ) groups , were preserved and subsequently examined microscopically to detect external , visceral , and skeletal abnormalities . none was found in lidocaine-treated groups ; reproductive indices also were normal . the only treatment effect was a reduction in mean fetal weight in the high-dose group . in a subsequent experiment this was found to be secondary to slightly delayed fetal development . it is concluded that lidocaine is devoid of significant adverse reproductive and teratogenic effects in sprague-dawley rats . 
effect of intravenous epinephrine on uterine artery blood flow velocity in the pregnant guinea pig . the purpose of the present study was to determine the effect of intravenously administered epinephrine on the maternal cardiovascular response and uterine artery blood flow velocity ( ubfv ) in the pregnant guinea pig . epinephrine ( 0.2 , 0.5 , and 1.0 micrograms / kg ) and lidocaine ( 0.4 mg / kg , with and without 0.2 micrograms / kg of epinephrine ) were administered intravenously to seven chronically instrumented pregnant guinea pigs near term . lidocaine without epinephrine did not significantly alter maternal heart rate ( mhr ) , maternal mean arterial pressure ( mmap ) , or ubfv . epinephrine , with and without lidocaine , resulted in a transient decrease in mhr . further , epinephrine , with and without lidocaine , resulted in significant elevations in mmap and significant , dose-related reductions in ubfv . mean ( + / - sem ) ubfv was 72 + / - 4 % , 56 + / - 4 % , and 40 + / - 5 % of baseline at 30 s after administration of epinephrine , 0.2 , 0.5 , and 1.0 micrograms / kg , respectively . it is concluded that these small intravenous boluses of epinephrine result in significant , although transient , reductions in ubfv in the pregnant guinea pig . 
halothane anesthetic requirements are not affected by aminophylline treatment in rats and dogs . the authors determined the effects of aminophylline on the anesthetic requirements for halothane in rats and dogs . mac for halothane was determined in rats ( n = 24 ) before and after aminophylline , 100 mg x kg-1 ip , or an equal volume of saline . because changes in central noradrenergic neurotransmission have been linked to drug-induced changes in the depth of the anesthetic state , we investigated the effect of aminophylline on the turnover of norepinephrine in discrete brain regions of halothane-anesthetized rats . to facilitate testing at steady-state aminophylline conditions and to permit frequent blood sampling , halothane mac was determined in dogs ( n = 7 ) before and after a therapeutic level of aminophylline ( 15 + / - 2 micrograms x ml-1 ) was obtained . neither in the rats ( 1.0 vs . 1.0 % ) nor in the dogs ( 1.04 + / - 0.14 vs . 1.01 + / - 0.14 % ) was halothane mac affected by aminophylline treatment . commensurate with the lack of change of anesthetic depth , aminophylline treatment did not affect noradrenergic neurotransmission in the brain of halothane-anesthetized rats . furthermore , the anticipated increase in circulating catecholamines following aminophylline treatment in dogs did not materialize . the authors conclude that halothane anesthetic requirements are not altered by aminophylline treatment , possibly because of the attenuation of the putative sympathomimetic effects of aminophylline by halothane . 
comparison of metabolites in skeletal muscle biopsies from normal humans and those susceptible to malignant hyperthermia . in earlier work on malignant hyperthermia ( mh ) susceptible pigs the concentration of muscle metabolites differed from that found in normal control pigs . therefore , in the present study these metabolites were measured in human muscle biopsies to find out whether normal individuals could be discriminated from mh-susceptible persons . analysis of skeletal muscle metabolites was performed on skeletal muscle obtained from humans ( n = 68 ) being screened to exclude or confirm susceptibility to mh . three groups were identified based on the reaction pattern of a skeletal muscle sample exposed in vitro to caffeine or halothane 1 % plus caffeine : 1 ) mh susceptible ( mhs ; n = 19 ) ; 2 ) normal humans , ( controls ; n = 31 ) ; and 3 ) intermediate-reaction type ( k-type : n = 18 ) . no significant differences were found in metabolite levels of phosphocreatine ( normal , mhs , and k-type : 13.20 vs . 13.74 vs . 14.42 nmol / mg wet weight , respectively ) , creatine ( 16.30 vs . 16.94 vs . 15.06 nmol / mg wet weight , respectively ) , adenosine triphospate ( 3.75 vs . 3.98 vs . 3.89 nmol / mg wet weight , respectively ) and lactate ( 3.73 vs . 3.65 vs . 3.79 nmol / mg wet weight , respectively ) . it is concluded that analysis of skeletal muscle metabolites cannot be used as a screening test to confirm or exclude mh susceptibility in humans . 
a cause of breathing system leak during closed circuit anesthesia . 
anesthetic management of cesarean section in a patient with idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis . 
comparative effects of halothane and ketamine on systemic arterial oxygen saturation in children with cyanotic heart disease . 
intraoperative esophageal electrocardiography for dysrhythmia analysis and therapy in pediatric cardiac surgical patients . 
effect of anesthetic induction regimens on oxygen saturation in cyanotic congenital heart disease . 
hemodynamic effects of diazepam , flunitrazepam , and midazolam in patients with ischemic heart disease : assessment with a radionuclide approach . 
prophylactic intravenous cimetidine reduces the risk of acid aspiration in morbidly obese patients . 
effects of renal sympathetic blockade on renal hemodynamics in patients undergoing major aortic abdominal surgery . 
comparison of direct blood pressure measurements at the radial and dorsalis pedis arteries during sodium nitroprusside- and isoflurane-induced hypotension . 
postlumbar puncture headache in pediatric oncology patients . 
the effects of nitrous oxide on postoperative bowel motility . 
does halothane really reduce diaphragmatic contractility ? [ letter ] 
cutaneous monitoring of carbon dioxide tension during bronchoscopy in an infant with airway obstruction [ letter ] 
closed-circuit anesthesia made easier [ letter ] 
pharmacokinetics and physiognomy [ letter ] 
risk of abortion following general anesthesia for surgery during pregnancy : anesthetic or surgical procedure ? [ letter ] 
measured versus predicted metabolic rate [ letter ] 
pulmonary edema following low-dose naloxone administration [ letter ] 
anesthetic management of acutely ill patients during magnetic resonance imaging [ letter ] 
atropine resistance in brain-dead organ donors [ letter ] 
recent subsegmental splenic infarction : hypervascular appearance on angiography . the authors describe a case of a focal splenic infarction with a hypervascular appearance on selective splenic arteriography . this appearance of splenic infarction has never before been reported . angiographers should be aware of this unusual presentation of splenic infarction when they encounter an unexplained focal hypervascular area . 
laser-doppler examinations in persons with healthy vasculature and in patients with peripheral arterial occlusive disease . recently , a new procedure for noninvasive measurement of the microcirculation has been developed in the form of a helium-neon-laser doppler apparatus with which the total erythrocyte flow through a cubic millimeter of skin is quantifiable . the authors used the procedure to examine 17 persons with healthy vessels , 36 patients with a degenerative occlusive disease of the peripheral arteries in fontaine stages ii-iv , and 5 patients with endangiitis obliterans . it is concluded that single measurements do not permit an assessment of microcirculatory conditions but that provocative tests ( which are described ) , especially occlusion tests , make possible valid and reproducible statements and have a high selectivity with respect to the different stages of disease . by repeated measurements followed by calculation of mean values , a further reduction in intraindividual variability among the measurement results can be obtained . laser-doppler examinations of the skin constitute a new procedure with which quantitative statements on the blood flow through skin are feasible and from which interesting results can be expected , especially when used as an acute test . 
balloon rupture during coronary angioplasty . out of a total of 1 , 500 percutaneous coronary angioplasties ( ptca ) , 55 ( 3.6 % ) were associated with balloon rupture . lesion calcification was noticed in 7 of these 55 patients ( 12.7 % ) . balloon rupture occurred at a mean pressure of 10.7 atmospheres . all balloons were retrieved without difficulty . intimal tears were noted in 18 ( 32.7 % ) cases . three patients required bypass surgery . in 29 patients restudied angiographically , the restenosis rate was 38 % . balloon rupture during ptca does not seem to be associated with detrimental consequences . 
massive pulmonary embolism : short-term effects of thrombolytic treatment . this study assessed the short-term effects of thrombolytic treatment in 38 patients with massive pulmonary embolism . thirty-two were treated with streptokinase and six with urokinase . intrapulmonary artery instillation of fibrinolytic agents was utilized except in 3 patients . there was a marked hemodynamic and arteriographic improvement ( p less than 0.0005 ) in 33 patients ( 86.8 % ) . four patients ( 10.5 % ) died because of treatment failure . in these cases the fibrinogen concentration remained above 1 gr / liter during therapy . bleeding was detected in 22 patients ( 57.8 % ) but was most often related to puncture or cut-down sites , and only 2 patients ( 5.2 % ) had major bleeding . one patient ( 2.6 % ) had cerebral hemorrhage . it is concluded that " classic " thrombolytic treatment is to be chosen in life-threatening pulmonary embolism . however , the difficulties sometimes encountered in producing an intense lytic effect and its low fibrinolytic specificity for the thrombus do not permit the obtainment of better results . 
felodipine compared to nifedipine as " third-line drug " in resistant hypertension . felodipine is a new dihydropyridine calcium antagonist , and in hypertension it is a much more effective " third-line " drug than hydralazine . nifedipine , on the other hand , is the established dihydropyridine calcium antagonist that has been increasingly used to treat hypertension . information is now needed on the relative merits and demerits of these two drugs . this study appraised , therefore , the therapeutic utility of twelve months ' treatment with nifedipine 20-60 mg twice daily in 55 patients with previous drug-resistant hypertension who had been successfully treated for the previous year with felodipine 5-20 mg twice daily , each calcium antagonist being used in combination with atenolol 100 mg daily with or without chlorthalidone 25 mg daily . initially , nifedipine maintained comparable blood pressure control to that which had been achieved by felodipine , although in the longer term ( over eight months ) nifedipine proved less effective than felodipine had ( p less than 0.02 ) and more patients became uncontrolled ( supine diastolic blood pressure , phase v , greater than or equal to 90 mmhg ) on the maximum tolerated dose of the calcium antagonist ( chi 2 = 4.13 , p less than 0.05 greater than 0.025 ) . the former degree of blood pressure control was , however , reestablished by increasing the dose of nifedipine or reintroducing the diuretic as necessary , and this control was maintained over the next four months . minor side effects were less common on nifedipine than they had been during the preceding felodipine treatment phase . felodipine thus has more pronounced and sustained antihypertensive effects than nifedipine , though its side effect burden may appear to be greater . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
a patient information sheet on house dust [ editorial ] 
isoproterenol-associated myocardial dysfunction during status asthmaticus . 
lack of interference in skin tests by endotoxin in allergen extracts . endotoxin activity was detected in several commercial allergen extracts . epicutaneous skin testing using purified lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) alone or mixed with allergen extracts demonstrated that lps had no effect on test results . we conclude that endotoxin present in allergen extracts is unlikely to have any practical implication for epicutaneous skin testing with these extracts . 
serum immunoglobulins and secretory iga deficiency in tonsillectomized children . we studied serum immunoglobulin patterns in 65 children aged 2 to 10 years before and 1 to 4 months after tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy , and secretory iga ( siga ) levels in 46 children aged 3 to 10 years before and 1 month after the same operation . serum immunoglobulin and siga values were normal prior to surgery , and significantly lower afterwards . the data emphasize the importance of palatine tonsils not only in the synthesis of monomeric immunoglobulins but also in the synthesis of dimeric immunoglobulins in secretions . although more long-term , follow-up studies supporting our results are needed , we suggest that a post-adenotonsillectomy drop in immunoglobulin and siga levels may predispose children to a constellation of disorders . we recommend , therefore , that serum immunoglobulins and siga levels be determined in all children before and after surgery . 
severe acute interstitial pulmonary edema from moduretic ( amiloride plus hydrochlorothiazide ) . 
the development of subsensitivity to nebulized atropine sulfate . ten adult asthmatic subjects were tested for response to inhaled atropine sulfate before and after 3 weeks of inhaled atropine therapy . four of the ten initial responders no longer responded after the 3 weeks . the mean fev1 increase was 0.49 l before treatment and 0.30 l after treatment ( p = .025 ) . subsensitivity to the effects of atropine develops , but may be limited to a subset of patients . 
beta 2-agonists for the treatment of wheezy bronchitis ? nebulized albuterol ( salbutamol ) for the treatment of wheezy bronchitis was evaluated in a double-blind trial comprising 28 acutely ill children younger than 18 months and in 13 children 18 to 36 months of age . no significant difference in clinical effect was shown between albuterol and saline in the youngest group of children . albuterol had some beneficial effect in children older than 18 months . 
a 15-year-old girl with a perforated gastric ulcer [ letter ] 
is weaning an art or a science ? [ editorial ] 
reality versus the academic milieu [ editorial ] 
the pattern of breathing during successful and unsuccessful trials of weaning from mechanical ventilation . we prospectively examined the pattern of breathing in patients being weaned from mechanical ventilation : one group ( n = 10 ) underwent a successful weaning trial and were extubated , whereas another group ( n = 7 ) developed respiratory failure and required the reinstitution of mechanical ventilation . during the period of ventilator support , minute ventilation ( vi ) , tidal volume ( vt ) , and respiratory frequency ( f ) were similar in the 2 groups . after discontinuation of the ventilator , vi remained similar in the 2 groups , but vt was lower and f was higher in the patients who failed the trial compared with those who were successful , 194 + / - 23 and 398 + / - 56 ml ( p less than 0.001 ) , respectively , and 32.3 + / - 2.3 and 20.9 + / - 2.8 breaths / min ( p less than 0.001 ) , respectively . the failure group displayed a significant increase in paco2 ( p less than 0.005 ) during spontaneous breathing , without a concomitant increase in the alveolar-arterial po2 difference . eighty-one percent of the variance in paco2 was accounted for by the pattern of rapid , shallow breathing . during weaning , resting respiratory drive ( reflected by mean inspiratory flow , vt / ti ) and fractional inspiratory time ( ti / ttot ) were similar in the 2 groups . the patients in the failure group showed significant increases in vt / ti , 265 + / - 27 to 328 + / - 32 ml / s ( p less than 0.01 ) , and vi , 5.82 + / - 0.53 to 7.32 + / - 0.52 l / min ( p less than 0.01 ) , from the beginning to the end of the weaning trial ; vt and f showed no further change . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
the relation of inspiratory effort sensation to fatiguing patterns of the diaphragm . tension in the respiratory muscles and the subsequent intrathoracic subatmospheric pressure swing plays a role in respiratory effort sensation . however , the role of a diaphragmatic fatiguing process in the genesis of this sensation has not been examined . therefore , we studied the effect of fatiguing contractions of the diaphragm on inspiratory effort sensation ( ies ) in 6 normal male subjects during inspiratory resistive loading . four diaphragmatic fatiguing and 4 diaphragmatic nonfatiguing patterns were developed for each subject . these 8 patterns were imposed in random order for 10 breaths ( 50 s ) with duty cycle and tidal volume fixed . the presence or absence of a diaphragmatic fatiguing process was confirmed by analysis of the high to low ratio of the electromyographic signal from an esophageal electrode . subjects scored their ies immediately after each run using a modified borg scale . there was a very strong correlation between ies and esophageal pressure ( pes ) expressed as a percentage of maximal inspiratory esophageal pressure ( pes / pesmax % ) ( r = 0.88 , p less than 0.001 ) . however , ies was independent of the presence of a diaphragmatic fatiguing pattern . furthermore , there was no difference in the slope or intercept of the regression lines relating ies to pes / pesmax % when fatiguing and nonfatiguing runs were analyzed separately . we conclude that the severity of ies during resistive loading held for 50 s is independent of the development of diaphragmatic fatigue . 
further specification and evaluation of a new clinical index for dyspnea . when breathlessness is described in conventional clinical indexes-such as the pneumoconiosis research unit score or the medical research council index-the ratings depend only on the magnitude of the most taxing task that the patient can perform . no attention is given to the patient 's effort in performing tasks or to the functional impairment produced by dyspnea in everyday activities . to improve the effectiveness and scope of the assessment , the patient 's magnitude of effort and task , as well as functional impairment , were combined in a recently developed new index of dyspnea . in the current research , this new index has been further improved and tested . the ratings have been cited with more precise criteria , and the results of the modified dyspnea index created by the new criteria have been compared with results of the conventional pneumoconiosis research unit score , and with physiologic measurements of pulmonary function . for 32 patients with stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) , the modified dyspnea index had a moderate correlation with the pneumoconiosis research unit score ( spearman rho = -0.62 ) and with the fev1 ( pearson r = 0.71 ) and fvc ( pearson r = 0.69 ) . among patients with the same pneumoconiosis research unit score , however , the modified dyspnea index scores showed a substantial gradient . ratings with both the previous and the modified new dyspnea indexes correlated most strongly with respiratory muscle strength , supporting the idea that dyspnea is mediated by alteration of respiratory muscle function . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
effects of adenosine triphosphate on pulmonary circulation in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . atp : a pulmonary vasoregulator ? extracellular adenosine triphosphate ( atp ) has potent systemic vasodilator and endothelial-dependent relaxant effects on precontracted vessels . pulmonary uptake and metabolism of atp have been described , but experimental effects on pulmonary vessels remain controversial in animals . the effects of an intravenously administered infusion of atp on pulmonary hemodynamic and gasometric data were assessed in 18 patients with stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) . low doses of atp ( successive rates , 1 and 2 mumol / kg body weight , each for 20 min ) were infused in pulmonary hypertensive ( h ; n = 6 ) and nonhypertensive ( n ; n = 6 ) patients . they were compared with a control group ( c ; n = 6 ) that received only solvent , using anova . during atp infusion , a significant pulmonary vasodilation was demonstrated as simultaneous decreases reached , respectively , -14.2 % ( group h ; p less than 0.005 ) and -13.8 % ( group n ; p less than 0.001 ) for mean pulmonary artery pressure ( ppa ) , and -31.7 % ( h ; p less than 0.05 ) and -20.7 % ( n ; p less than 0.01 ) for pulmonary vascular resistances ( pvr ) , associated with some worsening of hypoxemia : -6.9 % ( h ; p less than 0.01 ) and -11.8 % ( n ; p less than 0.005 ) . after atp withdrawal , significant rebound of these data ( above baseline values ) reached +10.9 % ( h ; p less than 0.05 ) and +4.4 % ( n ; p less than 0.05 ) for ppa and +24.9 % ( h ; p less than 0.05 ) and +10.2 % ( n ; p = ns ) for pvr . at the low infusion rate used , atp appeared to be a well-tolerated , short-acting , selective pulmonary vasolidating compound in patients with copd , but therapeutic use remains premature . 
biosynthesis of interstitial and basement membrane collagens in pulmonary fibrosis . we have investigated the synthesis and matrix deposition of interstitial and basement membrane collagens in a rat model of bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis . rats weighing 175 to 200 g were injected intratracheally with bleomycin sulfate ( 1.5 units ) or saline . at 10 days , lungs from bleomycin-treated rats showed multifocal interstitial and intraalveolar fibrosis , a nearly 2-fold increase in total lung hydroxyproline , and a 3-fold increase in the incorporation of [ 3h ] proline into bacterial collagenase-sensitive protein . for characterization of the newly synthesized collagens , lung slices were labeled for 4 h with [ 3h ] proline , homogenized in 4.5 m nacl , and extracted at 4 degrees c with 2 m guanidine-hcl and / or by reduction and alkylation . extracts contained type iv procollagen , types i , iii , and v collagen , and greater than 95 % of the nondialyzable [ 3h ] hydroxyproline . at 10 days , bleomycin-treated rats showed a nearly 2-fold decrease in the proportion of type iv in extracts of the 4.5 m salt residue , a greater than 3-fold increase in incorporation of proline into interstitial collagens , and an increase in the ratio of type i to type iii collagen . total incorporation of proline into type iv procollagen was not significantly increased . these results suggest that the period of maximal collagen synthetic activity observed at 1 to 2 wk after bleomycin administration is associated with a selective increase in the synthesis and accumulation of interstitial collagens . 
asbestos exposure and retention as determinants of airway disease and asbestos alveolitis . to evaluate the relationships of asbestos exposure , retention , airway response , and the asbestos alveolitis , we exposed 2 groups of sheep every 2 wk for 3 yr to either 100 ml phosphate-buffered saline ( pbs ) or 100 mg uicc chrysotile fibers in 100 ml pbs . the sheep were evaluated periodically by pulmonary function tests ( pft ) , chest radiograph ( cr ) , bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) , and transbronchial lung biopsy ( tlb ) . at month 24 of the study , all asbestos-exposed sheep had significant increases in lung resistance and upstream resistance . however , only 9 of the 16 asbestos-exposed sheep had significant changes in tlb , cr , cst , and vc , which clearly separated them from the other 6 sheep in these parameters . the 2 groups , however , had similar air-flow limitation . at lung biopsy , all asbestos-exposed sheep had significant peribronchiolar fibrosis , with significant alveolitis only in the group of 9 sheep with radiographic and functional changes of early asbestosis . the 9 sheep also had significant changes in bal cellularity and biochemical profile , which differentiated them from the other 6 asbestos-exposed sheep . analysis of bal fiber content at that point revealed that despite identical exposure , the group with interstitial lung disease had significantly more fiber retention ( p less than 0.01 ) . the data demonstrate that whereas asbestos airway disease appears to be primarily an exposure-dose-related response , the lung response appears to be more closely related to alveolar retention of the dust . 
central and peripheral airways as determinants of ventilatory function in patients with chronic bronchitis , emphysema , and bronchial asthma . we studied central and peripheral airways as determinants of ventilatory function in patients with chronic bronchitis ( cb ) , bronchial asthma ( ba ) , and emphysema ( cpe ) , which were identified using the selective alveolobronchogram ( sab ) ( see reference 14 ) . first , the relationship between sab and morphologic findings in the airway was examined in 16 autopsy lungs . the irregularity indices of both central ( c-ii ) and peripheral airways ( p-ii ) , obtained from sab , showed a significant correlation with pathologic abnormalities in both airways ( p less than 0.01 ) . second , sab were obtained in 38 cb , 25 ba , and 62 cpe patients in whom pulmonary function tests were performed . in cb , c-ii were significantly correlated with p-ii ( p less than 0.001 ) . in cb , inspiratory lung resistance ( rl ) was significantly correlated with p-ii ( p less than 0.001 ) and with c-ii ( p less than 0.01 ) , and fev / vc % was significantly correlated with p-ii ( p less than 0.0001 ) but not with c-ii . in ba and cpe , little correlation was observed between any sab parameter and rl or fev / vc % . we conclude that the present sab parameters represent morphometric abnormalities of the central and peripheral airways , and that in cb , peripheral airway abnormalities correlated well with chronic airway obstruction . 
lung function after acute chlorine exposure . chlorine gas , spreading from a train derailment , caused the deaths of 8 persons and the hospitalization of 23 with sublethal respiratory injuries . twenty-five others had at least one sign of lower respiratory abnormality but were not hospitalized . one hundred thirteen who were examined for gas effects in the forty-eight hours after exposure , including 20 of 23 of those hospitalized and 21 of 25 of those not hospitalized but with respiratory abnormality , participated in follow-up studies . probability of admission to hospital was related to distance from the spill , but by 3 wk after exposure there was no detectable difference in lung function relating to distance or apparent severity of injury . in 60 adults tested multiple times over the following 6 yr , longitudinal change in lung function showed expected differences related to smoking but none related to distance or severity of injury . the average annual change in fev was -34 ml / yr in current smokers and -18 ml / yr in ex and never-smokers . the lack of a discernible chlorine effect in this cohort accords with the findings in most previous studies . without pre-exposure measurements , a single , lasting reduction in lung function cannot be excluded , but there is no evidence for a persisting abnormal rate of decline . 
nitrogen dioxide-induced changes in cell membrane fluidity and function . nitrogen dioxide ( no2 ) , an environmental oxidant pollutant , is toxic to lung cells . one of the postulated mechanisms of no2-induced pulmonary injury involves peroxidation of membrane lipids . therefore , we evaluated the effect of 5 ppm no2 exposure on membrane lipid fluidity , uptake of 5-hydroxytryptamine ( 5-ht ) , lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh ) release , and formation of lipid peroxides in porcine pulmonary artery and aortic endothelial cells in culture . after 3- to 24-h exposure , cells were labeled with 1 , 6-diphenyl-1 , 3 , 5-hexatriene ( dph ) , an aromatic hydrocarbon that partitions into the hydrophobic interior of the lipid bilayer of cell membranes . membrane fluidity was monitored by measuring changes in rotational relaxation time ( rho ) for dph by fluorescence spectroscopy . reductions in membrane fluidity increase the value of rho . the 5-ht uptake was calculated from the disappearance of 1 x 10 ( -6 ) m 14c-5-ht from the medium , and ldh release and lipid peroxide formation were measured by spectrophotometric methods . the no2 caused a significant increase in rhodph in both types of endothelial cells after 3 h and progressed with further exposure to no2 . exposure to no2 for 24 h , but not 3 or 12 h , significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) reduced 5-ht uptake , increased ( p less than 0.01 ) ldh release , and increased ( p less than 0.05 ) lipid peroxide formation in both pulmonary artery and aortic endothelial cells . these results suggest that oxidant injury caused by no changes the physical state of membrane lipids , impairs membrane function , and contributes to the biochemical and metabolic abnormalities in the cells . 
inhalation of 0.30 ppm nitrogen dioxide potentiates exercise-induced bronchospasm in asthmatics . epidemiologic studies support an association among elevated levels of nitrogen dioxide ( no2 ) , increased respiratory symptoms , and alterations in lung function . to determine if low level no2 inhalation potentiates exercise-induced bronchospasm , 15 asthmatic subjects , defined by airway constriction with cold air provocation , inhaled 0.30 ppm ( 560 micrograms / m3 ) no2 for 30 min . all asthmatics inhaled either air or 0.30 ppm no2 via a mouthpiece for 20 min at rest followed by 10 min of exercise on a bicycle ergometer at a workload of 300 kpm / min , producing a 3-fold or greater increase in minute ventilation . our studies showed 72 + / - 2 ( se ) % deposition of inhaled no2 at rest and 87 + / - 1 % deposition with exercise ( p less than 0.001 ) . nitrogen dioxide inhalation at rest resulted in no significant change in pulmonary function . nitrogen dioxide inhalation plus exercise compared to control ( air ) exposure plus exercise produced significantly greater reductions in fev ( p less than 0.01 ) and partial expiratory flow rates at 60 % of total lung capacity ( p less than 0.05 ) . one hour after completion of no2 exposure and exercise , pulmonary function had returned to baseline values . to determine if no2 exposure caused increased reactivity to a known bronchoconstrictor , asthmatic subjects inhaled cold air ( range : -11 + / - 2 degrees c ) at 3 successive rates of isocapnic ventilation . the response to cold air was expressed as the respiratory heat exchange required to reduce the fev by 10 % ( pd10rhe ) . prior no2 exposure potentiated the fall in fev , pd10rhe , and specific airway conductance ( p less than 0.05 ) after isocapnic cold air hyperventilation , compared to the control exposure . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
hydroxyurea inhibits airway hyperresponsiveness in guinea pigs by a granulocyte-independent mechanism . exposure of guinea pigs to toluene diisocyanate ( tdi ) causes an increase in airway responsiveness to inhaled acetylcholine . this increased airway responsiveness is temporally associated with an increase in polymorphonuclear leukocytes ( pmn ) in the tracheal wall . to determine whether pmn play a mechanistic role in this increase in acetylcholine responsiveness , we studied the effects of pmn depletion on this response with 2 different cytotoxic drugs , hydroxyurea and cyclophosphamide . airway responsiveness was measured in untreated , hydroxyurea-treated , or cyclophosphamide-treated animals while they breathed spontaneously or during mechanical ventilation through a tracheostomy . in untreated animals , exposure to tdi caused a significant increase in airway responsiveness to acetylcholine for both spontaneously breathing and anesthetized and ventilated animals . this tdi-induced increase in airway responsiveness was associated with a significant influx of pmn into both the extravascular and intravascular trachea . treatment with hydroxyurea , to reduce pmn counts in the bloodstream to less than 200 / mm3 , inhibited both the tdi-induced increase in airway responsiveness and the tdi-induced influx of pmn into the trachea of both spontaneously breathing and mechanically ventilated animals . in mechanically ventilated animals , treatment with cyclophosphamide , until pmn counts in the bloodstream were less than 200 / mm3 , also inhibited the influx of pmn into the trachea but did not inhibit the tdi-induced increase in airway responsiveness . these results suggest that pmn are not necessary for the tdi-induced increase in airway responsiveness and that hydroxyurea inhibits this effect by a mechanism other than pmn depletion . 
the pulmonary disposition of theophylline and its influence on human alveolar macrophage bactericidal function . we studied the pulmonary disposition of theophylline by performing bronchoalveolar lavage on 19 normal , nonsmoking volunteers who had taken theophylline orally for 14 days . in addition , we determined the influence of theophylline on human alveolar macrophage bacterial phagocytosis , intracellular killing , and hydrogen peroxide release . we found a 1 : 1 relationship between serum and bronchoalveolar lavage theophylline concentrations when lavage fluid concentrations were corrected for saline dilution . we found marked impairment of the bactericidal activity of alveolar macrophages from theophylline-treated subjects ( intracellular killing efficiency of 24.7 + / - 1.5 % compared with 60.2 + / - 0.9 % by macrophages from control subjects ; p less than 0.001 ) . this defect in alveolar macrophage bactericidal activity was inversely correlated with the bronchoalveolar lavage theophylline concentrations , and was corrected after the alveolar macrophages were cultured under serum-free conditions for 48 h . theophylline significantly impaired alveolar macrophage release of hydrogen peroxide . hence , theophylline may compromise lung host defenses by suppressing alveolar macrophage bactericidal activity and oxidative metabolite release . 
immunoglobulin m rheumatoid factor in patients with mycoplasmal pneumonia . the relation of igm rheumatoid factor ( igm-rf ) and igg immune complex ( igg-ic ) to clinical aspects of mycoplasmal pneumonia was studied . serial serum samples obtained from 20 patients with mycoplasmal pneumonia and 4 patients with mycoplasma pneumoniae infection but without pneumonia were analyzed by sucrose density gradient centrifugation and elisa . in this study , the following findings were obtained . with the peak concentration of igm-rf , there was a decrease in pulmonary infiltration concomitant with a decrease in active igg-ic . with a rapid decrease in igm-rf , there was an exacerbation concomitant with an increase in active igg-ic . in some cases the concentrations of igm-rf were low in the acute phase of the disease and increased in the convalescent phase . some patients with continuously low concentrations of igm-rf had prolonged pneumonia . the existence of igg-igm-rf complexes in the bloodstream was shown . in this report , it is suggested that igm-rf might be associated with the recovery or might play a role in the recovery from this pneumonia . other possible explanations are also discussed . 
reperfusion pulmonary edema after pulmonary artery thromboendarterectomy . pulmonary artery thromboendarterectomy ( pat ) is a potentially curative procedure in chronic , major vessel thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension . however , postoperative reperfusion pulmonary edema ( rpe ) has been a serious complication , often requiring prolonged mechanical ventilation . this entity has been described only anecdotally in the past . to characterize it more fully , we retrospectively analyzed the course and potential determinants of rpe after thromboendarterectomy in 22 patients who had pat at our institution from 1969 through 1984. particular attention was directed to clinical data , thrombus location , areas operated , postoperative roentgenograms , and preoperative and postoperative hemodynamic data . in all patients but 1 , rpe developed within 72 h after surgery , corresponding to anatomic locations distal to vessels subjected to pat . regions of lung not reperfused at surgery were uniformly spared . pulmonary capillary wedge and / or left atrial pressures preoperatively and postoperatively were not elevated . none of the preoperative data predicted which patients would develop more persistent rpe . these observations suggest that the phenomenon of rpe is a peculiar , focal form of pulmonary edema , the basis for which remains to be defined . 
ige antibody mediated inflammation of rat lung : histologic and bronchoalveolar lavage assessment . pulmonary antigen challenge in sensitized individuals elicits immediate and late phase responses ( lpr ) . while mast cells and tissue inflammation are thought to be vital to the development of the lpr , the precise pathogenesis of these responses remains under investigation . using the sprague-dawley rat as a model to study cutaneous lpr , we have previously demonstrated that rat cutaneous lpr are mast cell-dependent and are histologically characterized by early ( 1-8 h ) neutrophil-rich and late ( 8-24 h ) mononuclear cell-rich infiltrates . to compare and contrast this cutaneous response with ige-dependent pulmonary inflammatory responses , we performed bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) analyses of pulmonary inflammation following specific antigen challenge in actively immunized [ ige anti-ovalbumin ( oa ) antibody ] and bal and histologic analyses in passively sensitized [ mouse hybridoma anti-dinitrophenyl ( dnp ) ige antibody ] rats . following direct insufflation of oa into the trachea , actively sensitized animals demonstrated an increased number of polymorphonuclear leukocytes ( pmns ) at 4 h in bal fluid . these cell numbers were significantly increased over controls by 24 h following challenge . in addition , rats passively sensitized for 72 h with anti-dnp ige hybridoma antibody ( pca = 1 : 10 , 000 ) were challenged with dnp-bsa aerosols . examination of bal fluid 1 to 2 h following challenge revealed significantly increased numbers of pmns which returned to normal levels by 24 h . numbers of lymphocytes and macrophages were unchanged compared to controls . microscopic examination of lung tissue revealed alveolar and interstitial edema at 2 h following challenge and a focal peribronchiolitis characterized by a predominantly mononuclear cell infiltrate . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
acute effect of paraquat on lung fluid balance and prostanoid production in awake sheep . paraquat , a widely used herbicide , causes severe lung damage in humans and laboratory animals . pulmonary edema is a common initial feature of paraquat toxicity , but its pathophysiology is not well understood . the purpose of this investigation was to determine the acute toxic effect of paraquat ( 30 mg / kg ) on pulmonary transvascular protein and fluid fluxes , histologic features , and prostanoid production , using awake sheep with chronic lung lymph fistulas ( n = 6 ) . lung lymph flow increased significantly 3.5 h after intravenous infusion of paraquat and rose to 2.6 times baseline within 8 h ( from 4.4 + / - 0.4 to 11.4 + / - 1.5 ml / h , p less than 0.05 ) . lymph-plasma protein concentration ratio increased during the same time period ( from 0.64 + / - 0.05 to 0.75 + / - 0.04 , p less than 0.05 ) . lung lymph protein clearance also increased at 3.5 h and remained elevated throughout the duration of the experiment . pulmonary arterial and left atrial pressure were only slightly altered . plasma and lung lymph thromboxane a2 ( as txb2 ) concentrations were significantly increased at 30 min and continued so thereafter . plasma and lung lymph prostacyclin ( 6-keto-pgf1 alpha ) concentrations increased significantly at 3 h and were more than 5 times baseline by 7 h . the time course of the increase in 6-keto-pgf1 alpha concentrations seemed similar to that of lung lymph flow . the high flow of protein-rich lymph strongly suggested an increase in pulmonary vascular permeability , which may indicate pulmonary endothelial damage . histologic studies of the lungs revealed only minor changes in perivascular cuffing , minimal alveolar hemorrhage , and slight neutrophilic alveolar wall infiltration . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
reconstitution of surfactant activity using purified human apoprotein and phospholipids measured in vitro and in vivo . the major apoprotein of human lung surfactant was isolated from amniotic fluid obtained at term gestation . it was found to be a disulfide-linked oligomer composed of polypeptide chains of 35 , 000 daltons . the monomeric unit was shown to be a glycoprotein , and treatment with peptide : n-glycosidase f resulted in a decrease in molecular weight to 31 , 000 daltons . the isolated apoprotein could be recombined in the presence of ca++ with the phospholipids dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylglycerol ( 3 : 1 ) at a weight ratio of 1 : 100. the surface tension ( gamma min ) measured on a pulsating bubble formed in 4 mg / ml of phospholipids was reduced from 32.3 + / - 2.0 dyn x cm-1 to 18.0 + / - 0.6 dyn x cm-1 after 15 s when 1 % apoprotein was present . reduction of disulfide bonds and deglycosylation of the apoprotein did not alter its ability to lower gamma min . fetal rabbits of 27 days gestation had instilled intratracheally at delivery , saline , phospholipids , phospholipids plus apoprotein , or natural human surfactant . the latter 2 resulted in increased lung compliance and striking improvement in homogeneous alveolar expansion when the lungs were expanded to 10 cm h2o pressure , fixed , and viewed histologically . this effect was also shown to be independent of the disulfide-dependent oligomeric structure of the apoprotein or its state of glycosylation . the surfactant produced by recombination of the phospholipids with the isolated apoprotein was , therefore , shown to be biophysically active both in vitro and in vivo . these data suggest that apoprotein can be recombined with phospholipids to produce a biologically active surfactant for use in clinical trials of human surfactant replacement . 
uptake of low density lipoproteins by the hamster lung . interactions with capillary endothelium . the mechanism by which the circulating low density lipoproteins ( ldl ) contribute to the lung surfactant cholesterol was investigated by perfusing the hamster lung in situ with ldl either radiolabeled or coupled to gold , or both . part of [ 125i ] -ldl and [ 3h ] -cholesterol ldl were taken up by a specific process which was time- and concentration-dependent and reached saturation within 20 to 30 min of perfusion . competition experiments and removal of receptor-bound ldl by heparin suggested that about 50 % of ldl uptake is receptor-independent . experiments using double labeled ldl showed a preferential uptake of 3h-cholesterol versus 125i by the lung both in situ and in vivo . ldl-gold particles ( ldl-au ) , recirculated through the isolated lung , bound to the endothelial luminal plasma membrane and to features potentially involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis ( coated pits , coated vesicles , lysosomelike structures ) and in transcytosis ( plasmalemmal vesicles ) . the results suggest that ldl uptake by the lung takes place by both receptor-mediated and receptor-independent mechanisms . cholesterol may be in part transferred to the lung without the apoprotein moiety ; the alveolar capillary endothelium appears to be the first monitor of this complex process . 
short-course chemotherapy of pulmonary tuberculosis : a new approach to drug dosage in the initial intensive phase . an analysis carried out on the dosage schemes adopted in several controlled clinical trials in tuberculosis has indicated that preestablishing the daily doses of isoniazid , rifampicin , and pyrazinamide in the initial intensive phase results in large deviations of the doses administered from those considered appropriate in mg / kg body weight . this is due partly to the variations in the patients ' body weight and partly to the restrictions in terms of fine adjustments of dosage imposed by the unitary content of active principle in the available individual preparations of the drugs . the availability of a fixed-triple combination of the same 3 drugs where the content of each component is established multiplying the mg / kg requirement of each drug by 10 , allows a complete coincidence between the appropriate and the administered dose simply administering 1 tablet every 10 kg of body weight . the implications of the large overdosing in light patients if the conventional approach is followed are discussed in terms of toxicity and drug purchasing cost , both being of great relevance for third world countries where the majority of patients are of low body weight . 
pyrazinamide is not active in vitro against mycobacterium avium complex . strains of m . tuberculosis that elaborate pyrazinamidase are typically susceptible in vitro and in vivo to pyrazinamide ( pza ) . however , we found that 33 strains of m . avium complex ( mac ) , all of which were pyrazinamidase-positive , were resistant in vitro to a high concentration ( 100 micrograms / ml ) of pza when tested at low ph in 7h12 broth by radiometric ( bactec ) method . the drug was equally ineffective against these bacteria within cultured normal human macrophages . we conclude that the pyrazinamidase test is not suitable for susceptibility studies against m . avium complex . on the basis of our in vitro studies , which support earlier data , we believe that pza is not appropriate for therapy of mac disease . 
tracheal stenosis complicating cutaneous burns : an underestimated problem . upper airway obstruction complicating thermal injury is usually considered as an acute problem that occurs during the initial 24 h after exposure . we report 3 patients who developed symptomatic upper airway obstruction caused by severe tracheal stenosis late in the course of burn management . the interaction of inhalation airway injury , mechanical trauma from tracheal intubation , and other etiologic factors commonly present in this setting demands close monitoring for this potential problem , and careful reconsideration of the indications for " prophylactic " intubation . 
bird fancier 's lung after an unusual exposure to avian protein . 
systemic to pulmonary artery fistulas in hodgkin 's disease . a case of hodgkin 's disease with multiple systemic to pulmonary artery fistulas is described . despite resolution of the parenchymal infiltrate with combination chemotherapy , the vascular abnormalities persisted . successful closure of the vascular connections occurred after therapeutic embolization with gel foam and alcohol . 
nih workshop summary . withholding and withdrawing mechanical ventilation . 
attenuation of permeability lung injury after phorbol myristate acetate by verapamil and oky-046 [ letter ] 
longitudinal evaluation of pulmonary function in copper smelter workers ' exposure to sulfur dioxide [ letter ] 
chemiluminescence of lung macrophages and blood leukocytes in sarcoidosis [ letter ] 
effects of the calcium channel blocker , verapamil , on asthmatic airway responses to muscarinic , histaminergic , and allergenic stimuli [ letter ] 
correlation of bronchoalveolar lavage and clinical and functional findings in asbestosis [ letter ] 
the case for treatment of selected patients with primary pulmonary hypertension [ letter ] 
human alveolar lining material and antibacterial defenses [ letter ] 
effective renal blood flow and renal energy charge in murine peritonitis . the temporal sequence of physiological derangements preceding acute renal failure ( arf ) observed in overwhelming bacterial septicemia remains controversial . in order to examine the relationship of renal circulatory alterations and cellular dysfunction in murine sepsis , effective renal plasma flow ( erpf ) , renal tissue metabolites , and energy charge ratios were determined in sprague-dawley rats at 10 and 20 hours following induction of peritonitis by cecal ligation and perforation ( clp ) or cecal manipulation alone ( sham ) . tissue levels of adenine nucleotides , lactate , and pyruvate were assayed after freeze-clamping kidneys unilaterally followed by enzymatic determinations . cardiac outputs were determined by thermodilution and erpf by p-aminohippuric acid ( pah ) clearance . results indicate in this model , despite an increase in cardiac output ( p less than 0.05 ) , erpf was significantly decreased at both 10 hours ( p less than ; 0.05 ) and 20 hours ( p less than 0.01 ) following induction of peritonitis . further , although tissue pyruvate / lactate ratios showed significant decreases by 10 hours ( p less than 0.05 ) , diminished energy charge ratios were not observed until 20 hours following septic insult . these findings support the hypothesis of diminished renal perfusion as contributory and antecedent to cellular dysfunction in septicemic arf . 
effect of collateral circulation on intestinal viability following segmental devascularization in the rat . the collateral circulation in the rat small intestine was studied by evaluating the viability of an intestinal segment after its primary mesenteric vascular supply had been interrupted . after ligation of the main mesenteric branches of a 30-cm segment of either jejunum or ileum , viability was assessed immediately by the fluorescence pattern observed under ultraviolet illumination after the peripheral intravenous injection of sodium fluorescein . viability was assessed again at 48 hours by the fluorescein technique and by gross and histologic examination . with the marginal vessels intact , the collateral circulation was able to sustain 10 per cent of the entire length of small intestine beyond the point of devascularization . on the other hand , when the marginal vessels had been ligated , this length of sustained intestine proved to be negligible . with respect to the above findings , there was no difference in the extent or pattern of collateral circulation at different levels along the small intestine , from proximal jejunum to jejuno-ileal junction to terminal ileum . systemic infusion of a vasodilator , isoproterenol , was found to substantially decrease the length of small intestine maintained viable by collateral flow . this was associated with a greater decrease in systemic vascular resistance than in mesenteric vascular resistance , which resulted in a drop in mesenteric blood flow . in each of the above studies , the ultimate viability of the intestine by histologic section at 48 hours correlated closely with the fluorescein pattern immediately after devascularization . these studies demonstrate that the collateral circulation of the small intestine is extensive and sufficient to maintain viability in a substantial proportion of the length of the entire intestine . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
impedance cardiography . current status and clinical applications . impedance cardiography is a highly reproducible , rapid and safe method for the evaluation of cardiac performance in the clinical setting . measurements of stroke volume ( sv ) , end diastolic volume ( edv ) , and end systolic volume ( esv ) with calculation of cardiac output ( co ) were obtained in normal , healthy people ( group 1 , n = 21 ) and in patients with congestive heart failure ( group 2 , n = 18 ) . individuals were placed on a tilt table and cardiac profiles ( measurements of co , sv , edv , and esv ) were performed at 45 degrees head up , 15 degrees head up , and supine . group 1 responded by increasing ci from 2.9 + / - 0.81 l / min / m2 at 45 degrees to 3.3 + / - 1.0 l / min / m2 at 15 degrees to 3.7 + / - 1.0 l / min / m2 supine . there was no corresponding rise seen in group 2 , with cis of 2.1 + / - 0.83 l / min / m2 , 2.0 + / - 0.78 l / min / m2 and 2.0 + / - 0.76 l / min / m2 at each position , respectively . in addition , while the edv increased at each position in group 1 ( 45 degrees : 71 + / - 21 cc / m2 , 15 degrees : 88 + / - 26 cc / m2 , supine : 102 + / - 29 cc / m2 ) , no such increase was evident in group 2 ( 45 degrees : 57 + / - 29 cc / m2 , 15 degrees : 52 + / - 20 cc / m2 , supine : 60 + / - 24 cc / m2 ) . the inability of group 2 patients to elevate ci and the absence of any discernible change in edv suggests an insufficiency of cardiac reserve with noncompliant ventricles . this information is currently being used to assess operative risk and to study effects of treatment modalities . 
is ethanol the unknown toxin in smoke inhalation injury ? of the 12 , 000 fire-related deaths occurring annually in the united states , it is estimated that 60 to 80 per cent are due to smoke inhalation . plastic and synthetic materials which have been introduced in home construction and furnishings produce a more toxic smoke when burned . efforts to identify a " supertoxin " in this smoke have been unsuccessful to date . an alternative approach is to examine why victims are unable to escape , and become exposed to smoke for lethal periods of time . the authors examined the circumstances of death in 39 fire victims ( 27 adults , 12 children ) over a 25-month period . detailed examination of the fire scene , autopsy studies , and toxicologic analysis were carried out . position of the victim , and escape efforts were noted . carbon monoxide was elevated in all victims , with " lethal " levels ( = greater than 50 % ) in 21 / 39 victims . cyanide was detected in 24 / 29 victims , but none had lethal ( 3 mg / l ) levels present . ethanol was detected in 21 / 26 adults ( 80 % ) and 0 / 12 children ( 0 % ) . 18 / 26 adult victims had ethanol levels above the statutory level of intoxication ( 10 mg % ) . victims found in bed ( no escape attempt ) had a mean blood ethanol level of 268 mg % , compared with a mean level of 88 mg % in those victims found near an exit ( p = .006 ) . ethanol intoxication significantly impairs the ability to escape from fire and smoke and is a contributory factor in smoke-related mortality . 
doppler-derived percentage systolic window and the quantitation of arterial stenosis . peak systolic frequency ( psf ) and percentage systolic window ( % sw ) are spectral parameters used to characterize poststenotic flow velocity patterns . the psf , obtained using a continuous-wave ( cw ) doppler velocimeter , has been used more frequently , however , in the quantitation of carotid occlusive disease . the authors have employed a microprocessor-driven pulsatile flow model to evaluate more completely the relationship between stenosis and the % sw . using an 8 mhz cw doppler probe , the doppler-shifted frequencies were recorded at 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , and 5 diameters distal to a variable , nonaxisymmetric stenosis , which reduced the cross-sectional area ( csa ) 25 , 40 , 50 , 60 , 70 , 85 , and 97 per cent . four sets of observations were made and the % sw derived using a spectrum analyzer . at one diameter from the stenosis , the relationship between the % sw ( y ) and the reduction in csa ( x ) is best described by two first-order regressions ( y = mx + b ) . the slope of the relationship from 0 to 60 per cent reduction in csa is nearly flat , -0.052 , while there is a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) decrease in the slope , -1.538 , when the csa is further reduced from 60 to 97 per cent . beyond 1 diameter , the relationship is best described by a single linear regression , the gradual slope of which does not permit clinically useful comparisons . these data explain the lack of strong correlation between csa and % sw when the data are evaluated over the entire range of stenoses . however , they do indicate that the % sw may be a useful correlate if it is obtained within one diameter of the stenosis . 
a new model to study acute and chronic renal failure . many models have been developed to study renal function following injury . two types of studies have evolved : acute--to define the acute renal injury and chronic--to determine the pattern of recovery . current models allow either study alone to be performed , but they lack the flexibility to combine the studies . in this study of renal ischemia , a model was designed which solved this problem . the authors constructed a model for performing a unilateral nephrectomy and episiotomy on female dogs . catheters were placed in the renal vein , vena cava , and aorta , and a renal artery flow cuff was applied . the catheters and wires were buried in a subcutaneous pocket and were exteriorized after a recovery of several weeks . the episiotomy allowed easy intermittent foley catheterization . with the animals awake and in a harness , parameters of renal function were measured : renal extraction , filtration fraction , fractional excretion , osmolar clearance , and free water clearance . glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow were calculated by inulin and paramino hippurate clearances . the animals were studied in diuretic and antidiuretic states . in addition , renal artery flow was determined by the doppler flow cuff . all parameters were determined every half hour in the acute setting , then every day in the chronic setting . the model was easily reproducible and functioned well in the authors ' renal ischemia studies . initial experiments with 1 hour of warm ischemia produced a greater than 50 per cent reduction in gfr acutely . chronic studies showed a gfr with a return toward normal . all model construction purposes and plans were met . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
opiate agonist depression of myocardial function is dose related and independent of pentobarbital or chloral hydrate anesthesia . previous work has demonstrated that a common opiate agonist , morphine sulfate ( ms ) , causes significant depression of myocardial performance when added to the perfusate of a modified langendorff isolated rat heart preparation . the same model has been used in this study with the addition of higher concentrations of ms to demonstrate that the aforementioned effects occur in a dose-related fashion . in addition , different anesthetics , sodium pentobarbital ( p ) or chloral hydrate ( ch ) , were compared and demonstrated that there was no significant difference in results . this implies that there is not an anesthetic-morphine interaction occurring . these results suggest opiate agonist depression of myocardial function acts on opiate receptors , causing primarily a chronotropic effect . 
the effect of hyperbaric oxygen on the bursting strength and rate of vascularization of skin wounds in the rat . a controlled experiment was performed to study the effect of intermittent hyperbaric oxygen on the bursting strength and new vessel formation in healing incised wounds in rats . results indicate that hyperbaric oxygen therapy both increases the bursting strength and stimulates angiogenesis of such wounds . 
patterns of pannus growth of the expanded polytetrafluoroethylene vascular graft with special attention to the intimal hyperplasia formation . serial histologic observations of the healing process of expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( ptfe ) vascular grafts in dogs were performed . the common iliac arteries of 12 mongrel dogs were replaced with a 2-cm segment of 6 mm ptfe graft , bilaterally . the grafts were studied microscopically after the animals were killed at 4 , 8 , 12 , 16 , 20 , and 24 weeks . all the grafts remained patent up to 24 weeks . special attention was paid to the histological characteristics of pannus growth , which were divided into two types : smooth appearing and irregular . the former type was characterized by smooth , thinner connective tissue growth along the graft , and the latter was defined as irregular-shaped pannus containing large and small thrombi . only pannus of the smooth type showed similar growth patterns and growth rates . these findings suggest essentially that pannus develops smoothly from both ends of the graft ; however , thrombi disturbed this growth pattern . in 24 grafts , eight nodular lesions of the pannus ( greater than 500 mu in height ) were found : five distally and three proximally . all eight lesions were found within 3 mm of the anastomoses . among these eight lesions , five were on the completely healed pannus , and the remainings were all on the irregular pannus . this suggests that thrombi organization followed by nodular lesions are major offending factors that lead to the formation of intimal hyperplasia . 
influence on healing in the canine thoracic aorta of three substances used to close the interstices of macroporous dacron grafts . the influence on healing of three materials for closure of interstices in a macroporous dacron arterial prosthesis were evaluated by 56-day implantation in the canine descending thoracic aorta . the materials studied were : the nondenatured fibrin deposited as a result of a 4-step preclot with autogeneic blood ( n = 6 ) , heat-coagulated autogeneic blood deposited by autoclaving the blood-soaked prosthesis ( n = 6 ) , and cross-linked human albumin ( n = 6 ) . healing of autogeneic fibrin was superior with little difference between the other two materials . 
implementation of si units for clinical laboratory data . style specifications and conversion tables [ published errata appear in ann intern med 1987 aug ; 107 ( 2 ) : 265 and 1989 feb 15 ; 110 ( 4 ) : 328 and 1991 jan 15 ; 114 ( 2 ) : 172 ] 
the new fluorinated quinolones for infection prevention in acute leukemia [ editorial ] 
volume : papers and academic promotion [ editorial ] 
the american shift to medical si units [ editorial ] 
almitrine bismesylate and hypoxemia [ letter ] 
radial artery puncture and the allen test [ letter ] 
pressure sores in geriatric patients [ letter ] 
mycobacterium avium complex and the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [ letter ] 
itraconazole for cryptococcal infection in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [ letter ] 
lymphomatoid granulomatosis and the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [ letter ] 
dysautonomia and infection with the human immunodeficiency virus [ letter ] 
home health care [ letter ] 
keeping up with the medical literature [ letter ] 
ascites in cirrhosis [ letter ] 
central thrombocytopenia and liver disease [ letter ] 
bone marrow examination in small cell lung cancer [ letter ] 
metronidazole interferes with theophylline measurements [ letter ] 
benzene-associated myelofibrosis [ letter ] 
succinylcholine-induced hyperkalemia complicating the neuroleptic malignant syndrome [ letter ] 
phenazopyridine and aseptic meningitis [ letter ] 
health care in cambodian refugee camps [ letter ] 
the co-occurrence of reiter 's syndrome and acquired immunodeficiency . thirteen patients who had the co-occurrence of severe reiter 's syndrome and the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) or its syndromes were studied . the arthritis was reactive in three patients and without defined cause in the others . nine patients had hla-b27 . the two syndromes appeared simultaneously in four patients , suggesting a common biologic process , and in the others the immunodeficiency either preceded or followed the arthritis . reiter 's syndrome occurring in the setting of this profound immunodeficiency suggests that helper t cells were not involved in the pathogenesis of the rheumatic disease . difficulties were encountered in the diagnosis of either syndrome in the presence of the other . two patients with reiter 's syndrome developed kaposi 's sarcoma and fulminant aids after receiving methotrexate , which emphasizes the need for caution in the use of immunosuppressive therapy in reiter 's syndrome . an additional patient with undifferentiated spondylarthropathy subsequently developed psoriasis in conjunction with the onset of aids . 
postmenopausal bone loss is prevented by treatment with low-dosage estrogen with calcium . bone mass was measured prospectively in 73 women during the period immediately after menopause . by comparing the rates of loss at three skeletal sites , we assessed the protective effects of calcium supplements given alone or combined with low-dosage estrogen therapy . after 2 years of follow-up , spinal trabecular mineral content , measured by quantitative computed tomography , decreased by a mean of 9.0 % ( p = 0.002 compared with baseline ) in untreated women and a mean of 10.5 % ( p = 0.0001 ) in women given calcium supplements alone . by contrast , women given conjugated estrogens , 0.3 mg / d , with calcium supplements showed an insignificant increase of 2.3 % . significant losses of a lesser magnitude were seen in the appendicular cortical skeleton of women not receiving therapy and in those receiving calcium alone , but no significant changes were observed in women receiving estrogen with calcium . 
collagenous colitis : physiologic and histopathologic studies in seven patients . collagenous colitis is a clinicopathologic syndrome with chronic watery diarrhea , diffuse colitis with surface epithelial injury , and a distinctive collagen band beneath the surface epithelium especially in the proximal colon . the cases of seven patients ( including six middle-aged women ) with chronic , watery , noninfectious diarrhea were studied . roentgenographic and endoscopic findings were not diagnostic . two patients had rectal mucosal inflammation but sparing of the distal colon from subepithelial collagen . other findings included thyroid disease ( four patients ) , urethral fibrosis ( three ) , elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( six ) , and eosinophilia ( three ) . the colon was thought to be the main source of diarrheal fluid , but bile salt malabsorption , steatorrhea , and net small-bowel secretion were additive factors in some patients . with antiinflammatory treatment the diarrhea abated , the surface epithelial injury decreased , and the subepithelial collagen resolved ( two patients ) , but lamina propria inflammation persisted . collagenous colitis seems to be a chronic systemic , and perhaps autoimmune , disorder . 
hyperamylasemia in patients with eating disorders . hyperamylasemia , which has been reported in patients with the eating disorders anorexia nervosa and bulimia , generally has been thought to result from pancreatitis . to evaluate the mechanisms of hyperamylasemia , we measured amylase , lipase , and isoamylase activity in 17 consecutive patients admitted to the eating disorder unit . six patients had elevated amylase activity , and 5 of these 6 had isolated increases in salivary isoamylase activity . six other patients had normal serum total amylase activity but modest elevations in the salivary isoamylase fraction . no patient developed clinical evidence of pancreatitis during hospitalization . thus , the hyperamylasemia in patients with anorexia and bulimia often is caused by increased salivary-type amylase activity . the appropriate diagnostic test for hyperamylasemia in patients with anorexia or bulimia is the simple measurement of serum lipase or pancreatic isoamylase activity . if these levels are found to be normal , further tests to exclude pancreatitis are unnecessary . 
localizing coronary artery obstructions with the exercise treadmill test . to determine if patterns of st depression or elevation during exercise testing provide reliable information about the location of an underlying coronary lesion , we studied 452 consecutive patients with one-vessel disease who underwent treadmill testing . exercise st changes were classified as elevation or depression and by lead groups involved . the st depression occurred most commonly in leads v5 or v6 regardless of which coronary artery was involved . in contrast , anterior st elevation indicated left anterior descending coronary disease in 93 % of cases , and inferior st elevation indicated a lesion in or proximal to the posterior descending artery in 86 % of cases . furthermore , anterior st elevation in leads without diagnostic q waves usually indicated a high-grade , often proximal , left anterior descending stenosis , whereas anterior st elevation in leads with q waves usually indicated a totally occluded left anterior descending coronary artery . thus , st elevation during exercise testing , although uncommon , is a reliable guide to the underlying coronary lesion , whereas st depression is not . 
risk of human immunodeficiency virus infection from blood donors who later developed the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . 
glucocorticoid insufficiency , achalasia , alacrima with autonomic motor neuropathy . 
methimazole , carbimazole , and congenital skin defects . 
immunization of children infected with human t-lymphotropic virus type iii / lymphadenopathy-associated virus . recommendations of the immunization practices advisory committee . centers for disease control , department of health and human services . this document is intended to summarize available information and to assist health-care providers in developing policies for the immunization of children infected with human t-lymphotropic virus type iii / lymphadenopathy-associated virus ( htlv-iii / lav ) [ now known as the human immunodeficiency virus ] , the virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . these policies may vary depending upon the prevalence of htlv-iii / lav infection and the incidence of vaccine-preventable diseases in the community , individual assessment of a child 's health status , and the risks and benefits of immunization in a particular situation . this discussion considers the risks and benefits of immunization for children residing in the united states based on the risks of vaccine-preventable diseases and the prevalence of htlv-iii / lav infection and is intended for use by health-care providers in the united states . the recommendations may not pertain to other countries with different risks of vaccine-preventable diseases and prevalence of htlv-iii / lav infection among children . since these recommendations are based upon information and knowledge available at this time , periodic reassessment and revision will be required as more data concerning risk and benefits associated with immunization of htlv-iii / lav-infected children become known and as the prevalences of specific vaccine-preventable diseases and htlv-iii infection change . 
nih conference . lupus nephritis . nephritis has long been considered one of the most ominous components of systemic lupus erythematosus . accumulations of immune complexes and lymphoid cells in several locations within the kidney are the best-described elements of lupus nephritis . the extreme diversity of the renal changes indicates that many variables are likely to be involved . inbred strains of lupus-prone mice have provided homogeneous subjects for study of pathogenesis and response to treatment . comparable grouping of lupus nephritis in humans according to unique or dominant pathogenetic mechanisms is imprecise and limited by insufficient knowledge of the primary stimulus for the disease . treatment is also imperfect and , at times , hazardous . certain regimens incorporating cytotoxic drugs provide a significant therapeutic advantage over corticosteroids alone in the management of this disease . 
anesthetic management for tracheobronchial laser surgery . the use of the laser has become a well-recognized means of treating obstructing lesions of the tracheobronchial tree . patients with lower airway compromise are in a precarious state of equilibrium . everything done by the endoscopy-anesthesiology team tends to change this balance . cooperation and coordination of this well-disciplined team is needed for efficient treatment of difficult cases . this paper outlines our surgical techniques , which have been tempered and modified to an anesthetic technique that provides the greatest safety with comfort . we detail the basic anesthetic methods for drug usage , pulmonary ventilation , and patient monitoring that we now use . a careful analysis of our results is presented to show that this technique does provide relatively safe anesthesia in this difficult setting . 
imbrication reconstruction following partial laryngectomy . experience over a 16-year period with 38 patients who underwent partial laryngectomy with imbrication reconstruction is reviewed . we have found this technique to be an expeditious and highly successful means of eradicating t1 or t2 glottic cancer . the use of the patient 's own full-thickness , adjacent normal tissue with imbrication of cartilage produces an adequate airway , an almost normal-appearing larynx , and a remarkable posttreatment voice quality , better results than from most cordectomies or vertical hemilaryngectomies . it is valuable as a salvage procedure after full-course radiation . imbrication laryngoplasty is an alternative and a preferred modality for treatment of young people with early glottic carcinoma for whom the possible carcinogenic properties of radiation must be considered . the survival results are comparable with the more extensive vertical laryngectomies . 
posterior glottis . morphological study in excised human larynges . two sets of investigations were conducted with excised human larynges . the glottis was closely observed and photographed from above and below in three conditions : neutral , adduction , and abduction . the structure surrounding the posterior glottis was histologically investigated in the same three conditions . the results are as follows . the structure surrounding the posterior glottis consists of three portions : the posterior wall of the glottis , the lateral wall of the posterior glottis , and the cartilaginous portion of the vocal fold . during vocal fold adduction , the posterior part of the larynx closes completely not at the glottis but at the supraglottis , resulting in formation of a conic space in the posterior glottis that can be viewed only from below . the posterior glottis accounts for approximately 35 % to 45 % of the entire glottic length and 50 % to 65 % of the entire glottic area . the mucosa of the posterior glottis has ciliated epithelium . the lamina propria consists of two layers . the posterior glottis can be regarded as a respiratory glottis . 
experience with partial cricoid resection and thyrotracheal anastomosis . since 1973 , 28 patients have undergone tracheal and subglottic resection with reconstruction by primary laryngotracheal anastomosis . nine patients had postintubation stricture , eight had blunt trauma with cricotracheal disruption , seven had a neoplasm , two had an inhalation burn , and two had idiopathic stenosis . in all cases , the anterior cricoid arch was completely resected and a submucosal segment of the posterior cricoid plate was partially resected . a posterior shell of cricoid plate was preserved in 21 patients with intact laryngeal nerve function . postoperatively , a montgomery t-tube was used to stent the anastomosis and subglottic area in ten patients , all of whom had residual injury or disease at or immediately below the level of the cords . the proximal arm of the t-tube was positioned above the vocal cords . the tube was removed within 1 month in eight patients and remained for 3 and 18 months in the other two . the extent of resection varied from 2.5 to 7 cm . tension-relieving procedures were added in 13 cases . fourteen patients have been followed longer than 5 years , and five patients for more than 10 years . a widely patent anastomosis was maintained in 26 patients . in two patients , a partial restenosis resulted in some limitations of exercise tolerance . voice and exercise tolerance have not deteriorated with the passage of time . recurrent laryngeal nerve function was completely preserved in 20 of the 21 patients whose nerve function was intact before operation . 
diagnosis and treatment of small cell carcinoma of the larynx : a critical review . small cell carcinoma of the larynx is an uncommon neuroendocrine tumor with particular pathologic , therapeutic , and prognostic connotations . the first case of this lesion was observed in canada in 1972. fourteen cases of small cell carcinoma of the larynx were observed in the ear , nose , and throat department of padua university in a series of 3 , 284 primary and secondary laryngeal and hypopharyngeal malignant neoplasms . this number constitutes the largest collection from a single institution in the literature and brings the total recorded cases to 66. the tumor is thought to arise from the argyrophilic kulchitsky cells normally found in laryngeal mucosa . the diagnosis is based on the light microscopic appearance of the neoplasm and can be confirmed by electron microscopy . the differential diagnosis must be made from carcinoid , atypical carcinoid , small cell squamous carcinoma , small cell ductal carcinoma , lymphoma , mycosis fungoides , and metastatic lung small cell cancer . systemic chemotherapy with radiation therapy is the accepted manner of treatment today . the survival of the patients treated with these modalities may be significantly improved , and some patients may be cured . 
estrogen receptor in the larynx of the aged baboon ( papio cynocephalus ) . using autoradiographic techniques , tritiated estrogen-receptor complex intranuclear labeling was identified in certain laryngeal tissues of four aged female baboons ; no complex labeling was found in the control animal . three significant findings were felt to be derived from this study . one , surface epithelium of the larynx had essentially no estrogen-receptor activity . two , all tissues of mesenchymal origin , especially lamina propria , muscle , dense connective tissue , and fat had consistently high levels of nuclear localization of the labeled estrogen . the binding affinity seemed to be the highest at the anterior commissure and the immediate anterior subglottic space . three , there was a high level of receptor binding in laryngeal cartilage and perichondrium . since the activated hormone-receptor complex modulates gene expression to alter the amount of mrna , sex steroids have a direct regulatory effect upon the target cell and , perhaps through an induction process , can exert an indirect effect upon adjacent tissues . it is postulated that since the larynx is a sexually dimorphic organ , the sex steroids and their receptors may play a role in altered phonation during aging and possibly in the development of laryngeal neoplasms and other diseases . therefore , hormonal manipulation may play a future role in the therapy of laryngeal diseases . this study represents the first demonstration of estrogen receptors by specific anatomic location in the primate larynx with significant localization in the mesenchymal tissues but not in the epithelial tissues . 
vocal cord paralysis in small children : principles in management . vocal cord paralysis in children is an uncommon but often disabling problem . it may be congenital or acquired either in the immediate period surrounding birth or as a postpartum event . because even unilateral vocal cord paralysis can result in severe respiratory distress in the newborn and in small children , recognition of this problem can be critical . a logical approach to diagnosis and management requires not only that the physician be alert to the problem but also that several procedures be established that can be used together or singly to address the problem , as is most appropriate to the individual case . the usefulness of intubation , tracheotomy , surgical lateralization of the vocal folds , and reinnervation in the management of these problems is discussed , and 30 cases of vocal cord paralysis in children under the age of 5 years are presented . 
vocal cord paralysis in children 1 year of age and younger . twenty-two patients 1 year of age or younger were diagnosed as having unilateral or bilateral vocal cord paralyses between 1962 and 1985. there was a marked male predominance , and 12 of the paralyses were bilateral . congenital neurological malformations were the cause in six patients , birth trauma in five , surgery in four , syphilis in one , and six cases were idiopathic . tracheotomy was necessary in 11 of the patients with bilateral paralyses . ten of the 16 patients for whom follow-up was available had resolution of the paralysis from 1 week to 5 years of age . the importance of making an accurate diagnosis is stressed , as is using the fiberoptic laryngoscope . 
risk factors for neonatal acquired subglottic stenosis . endotracheal intubation has proven to be a relatively safe and effective means of securing the airway in neonates . some concern remains , however , regarding airway management in critically ill infants who require assisted ventilation for extended periods . among the various risk factors associated with the complication of acquired subglottic stenosis in neonates , the one most frequently cited has been " prolonged " intubation , although opinion varies regarding the definition of this term . various recommendations exist that attempt to establish the limits of " safe " periods of intubation for infants . some feel that tracheotomy is indicated when airway support is required beyond those limits . in an attempt to define important risk factors involved in the development of neonatal subglottic stenosis , a retrospective analysis of infants admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit of columbus children 's hospital who required intubation during a 3-year period from 1977 to 1980 was undertaken . of 343 infants who survived hospitalization , five patients were identified as having acquired subglottic stenosis . the average duration of intubation for these five patients was 56.2 days . the incidence of subglottic stenosis for infants whose duration of intubation ranged from 3 to 50 days was 0.4 % ( 1 / 245 ) . infants with birth weights less than 1 , 500 g appeared more susceptible to the development of intubation-related laryngeal injury . the conclusion of this study is that endotracheal intubation is an appropriate means of long-term airway management in neonates hospitalized in a pediatric intensive care unit , providing other known risk factors are minimized . 
intranasal microsurgery of all paranasal sinuses , the septum , and the lacrimal sac with hypotensive anesthesia . 25 years ' experience . since 1958 all intranasal surgery at krupp hospital ( including 2 , 986 operations in 1984 ) have been performed with the zeiss operating microscope . anesthesia with hypotension is important to improve the results . to facilitate focusing , a balanced movable position of the microscope directed by head motions of the surgeon and a semi-fowler 's position for the patient have proven best . large fenestrations above and below the lower turbinates permit maxillary sinus surgery under direct binocular vision with the aid of mirrors or endoscopes . for the last 12 years the caldwell-luc approach was used in less than 2 % of operations . all ethmoidal , lacrimal sac , and epistaxis surgery is performed intranasally . in 1984 frontal sinus surgery was performed in 59 cases with an intranasal and in 11 cases with an osteoplastic procedure . for a larger defect of the ethmoidal roof in severe injuries , conically trimmed rib cartilage is wedged into the defect from above . having performed more than 4 , 000 ethmoidal operations we have never experienced an iatrogenic csf leakage , or persisting postoperative visual or ocular disturbance . in order to achieve the necessary skill , training on 50 cadavers is required . 
experimental retraction pocket cholesteatoma . an animal model for retraction pocket ( primary acquired ) cholesteatoma is presented . bilateral eustachian tube obstruction by electrocauterization of the nasopharyngeal portion was performed in 16 mongolian gerbils . animals were killed at 2 , 4 , 8 , and 16 weeks . at 2 weeks all animals had bilateral serous effusions and retracted tympanic membranes . at 4 weeks , four of eight ears had middle ear fluid , retractions , and cholesteatomas . after 8 weeks , five of eight ears had middle ear effusions , and four of these had cholesteatomas ; one ear had total atelectasis with a cholesteatoma filling the bulla . by 16 weeks , six of eight ears had developed cholesteatomas . some animals did not develop effusion or retraction because of failure or recanalization of eustachian tube obstruction . this study provides experimental evidence that aural cholesteatomas may arise by retraction of the tympanic membrane . 
otogenic cerebellar abscess . 
vascular tumors of the salivary glands . tumors of a vascular origin in the major salivary glands are nearly always hemangiomatous , rarely malignant , occur most often in the parotid glands , and are found predominantly in newborns and infants . 
parkinson 's disease [ editorial ] 
saccadic eye movement dysfunction in alzheimer 's disease . saccades were measured by magnetic search coil technique in 13 patients with alzheimer 's disease and compared with those of 11 age-matched control subjects . we analyzed responses to target motion of predictable and unpredictable timing or amplitude , and responses to briefly flashed targets . latencies were significantly prolonged and peak velocities reduced only when the timing of target motion was unpredictable . saccades to predictable amplitude targets were abnormally hypometric . in 8 patients , impersistence of gaze was manifested by large-amplitude saccadic intrusions away from the intended position of gaze . when instructed to make saccades away from a flashed target , patients made reflexive saccades toward the target . we attribute this visual grasp reflex to frontal lobe degeneration . these eye movement deficits can be used to quantify motor dysfunction in alzheimer 's disease . 
perforant pathway changes and the memory impairment of alzheimer 's disease . the perforant pathway is a large neuronal projection that arises from layers ii and iii of the entorhinal cortex of the parahippocampal gyrus . it is the principal source of cortical input to the hippocampal formation . in 11 cases of alzheimer 's disease , we have found that neurofibrillary tangles develop in the cells of origin of the perforant pathway . in addition , the termination zone of the perforant pathway , in the outer two thirds of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus , contains a distinct layer of neuritic plaques . none of the 8 control subjects had such changes . these profound alterations effectively disconnect the hippocampal formation from the association and limbic cortices . because of the central role of the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus in learning , it is likely that pathological changes in the perforant pathway , by precluding normal hippocampal operation , account for some aspects of the memory impairment in alzheimer 's disease . 
widespread reduction of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity in the cerebral cortex in alzheimer 's disease . although several studies have documented reduced concentrations of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity ( sli ) in the cerebral cortex in alzheimer 's disease , there is controversy concerning the extent and importance of these changes . we measured sli in brains obtained post mortem from 12 patients with pathologically confirmed alzheimer 's disease and from 13 neurologically normal controls . all major cortical and subcortical regions were examined . widespread reductions of sli in alzheimer 's disease cerebral cortex were found , with the most profound changes seen in temporal lobe ; but there also were major reductions in both the frontal and occipital cortex . there were no significant reductions in subcortical regions . characterization of sli by high-pressure liquid chromatography showed no significant difference in profiles between alzheimer 's disease and control frontal cortex . these results suggest that the reduction in somatostatin immunoreactivity in alzheimer 's disease may be caused by degeneration of intrinsic somatostatin cortical neurons . 
proton magnetic resonance imaging in ischemic cerebrovascular disease . proton magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) using a 0.6- or 1.5-tesla superconductive magnet was compared with high-resolution computed tomography ( ct ) in 60 patients with transient ischemic attacks ( tias ) or brain infarction . mri showed focal parenchymal changes in 84 % of patients with tias , whereas ct showed similar changes in 42 % . the sensitivity of mri was also greater in patients with infarcts , but the difference between ct and mri was not as great . infarcts were usually better delineated by mri regardless of location . however , mri failed to reveal cortical infarcts that were clearly seen on contrast-enhanced ct scans and was unable to clearly distinguish subacute from chronic hemorrhagic infarcts . mri changes were best detected with t2-weighted images and usually appeared as multiple areas of increased signal intensity in the subcortical and periventricular white matter . mri changes often could not be correlated with the clinical history and neurological findings ; identical changes have been seen in patients with no history of cerebrovascular disease . 
the value of intraoperative eeg monitoring during carotid endarterectomy . since controversy continues concerning the value of routine electroencephalographic ( eeg ) monitoring and selective carotid bypass shunting , we reviewed the neurological morbidity and mortality following elective carotid endarterectomy in 172 patients with symptomatic carotid occlusive disease . the use of eeg monitoring and selective shunting was associated with a reduction in the frequency of carotid shunts ( 49 to 12 % ) and a decline in combined major neurological morbidity and mortality ( 2.3 to 1.1 % ) . we conclude that the routine use of intraoperative eeg monitoring is a valuable procedure , particularly in patients at high risk for perioperative neurological complications . 
cerebral metabolic effects of neonatal seizures measured with in vivo 31p nmr spectroscopy . in vivo phosphorus 31 nuclear magnetic resonance ( 31p nmr ) spectroscopy was used to evaluate changes in cerebral high-energy phosphate compounds in 8 infants with seizures . during the study 4 babies had seizures that caused a 50 % decrease in the phosphocreatine to inorganic phosphate ( pcr / pi ) ratio . focal seizures caused lateralized decreases in the pcr / pi ratio ; generalized seizures caused bilateral decreases . postictal spectra had increased pcr / pi ratios , presumably due to postictal inhibition . interictal 31p nmr spectra were normal . one patient 's seizures were successfully treated with intravenously administered phenobarbital during nmr data acquisition , causing an immediate increase in the pcr / pi ratio from 0.7 to 1.2 . these studies indicate that cerebral pcr concentration decreases by approximately 33 % and that oxidative metabolism increases by approximately 45 % during neonatal seizures . five babies had pcr / pi ratios of less than 0.8 during seizures and subsequently developed long-term neurological sequelae , which suggests that neonatal seizures may cause or exacerbate cerebral injury by increasing cerebral metabolic demands above energy supply . 
dendritic atrophy in children with down 's syndrome . dendritic branching was evaluated in the visual cortex of 8 children with down 's syndrome and 10 controls , ranging in age from 4 months to 7 years and divided into infantile , late-infantile , and juvenile groups . camera lucida drawings of golgi-impregnated neurons were used for examining the following dendritic aspects : dendritic intersections as a function of distance from the cell body , point of maximum dendritic branching , number of branch orders , total number of branch segments , and total dendritic length . the number of intersections and the total dendritic length were above normal in the infantile period ( 6 months old or less ) and dropped steadily to significantly below normal in the juvenile group ( older than 2 years ) . these reductions contrasted with expanding dendritic arborization in normal children . the results suggest that the dendritic tree atrophies in early childhood in down 's syndrome . 
subacute sensory neuronopathy secondary to dorsal root ganglionitis in primary sjogren 's syndrome . sensory neuropathies , particularly trigeminal neuropathy , have been recognized as neurological complications of sjogren 's syndrome , but the pathogenesis has not been established . we describe a woman with primary sjogren 's syndrome who developed a progressive debilitating subacute sensory neuronopathy . results of electrophysiological studies were consistent with involvement of the trigeminal and dorsal root ganglia . a thoracic dorsal root ganglion biopsy showed lymphocytic infiltration and degeneration of ganglion cells . we believe that this is the first description of biopsy-documented dorsal root ganglionitis in a subacute sensory neuronopathy associated with sjogren 's syndrome and that the finding suggests an immunopathogenic basis . 
a rapidly progressive autosomal dominant scapulohumeral form of spinal muscular atrophy . three patients from a large pedigree are described who had autosomal dominant spinal muscular atrophy that became manifest between the end of the fourth and the sixth decade . the disease progressed rapidly without evidence of corticospinal tract dysfunction , and within 3 years the patients died from respiratory failure . 
gerstmann-straussler-scheinker disease : autopsy study of a familial case . postmortem neuropathological findings in a patient with biopsy-proved familial gerstmann-straussler-scheinker disease of eight years ' duration included severe spongy change in the neocortex , extensive and often large amyloid deposits throughout the cerebral hemispheres and cerebellum , and severe astrocytic gliosis throughout all areas of gray and white matter within the brain . the degree of cortical spongy change was much greater than that in relatives who died with a similar clinical history , indicating the phenotypic heterogeneity in this familial disorder . 
tamoxifen for brain metastases from breast cancer [ letter ] 
nonepileptogenic midline epileptiform activity [ letter ] 
primary central nervous system lymphoma in acquired immune deficiency syndrome : a clinical and pathological study . twenty cases of primary lymphoma of the central nervous system associated with acquired immune deficiency syndrome were seen over a period of four years and were studied clinically and pathologically . biopsy established the diagnosis in 11 cases , and autopsy confirmed it in 9. multicentricity was demonstrated in all cases for which there was adequate autopsy material . both large-cell immunoblastic and small noncleaved lymphomas were seen , and marker studies in 5 patients established that the lymphomas were of b-cell origin . neurological symptoms and signs , cerebrospinal fluid characteristics , and radiographic appearance were reviewed . the clinical and radiographic picture is nonspecific and histological confirmation is essential for diagnosis . although the tumor appears to be radiosensitive , prognosis is extremely poor , with an average survival of less than two months . 
acute high-dose methotrexate neurotoxicity in the rat . intravenous high-dose methotrexate chemotherapy may produce acute , subacute , or chronic neurotoxicity in patients with cancer . acute encephalopathies following high-dose methotrexate treatment are recognized with increasing frequency . this study describes a model of acute high-dose methotrexate neurotoxicity in the rat characterized by a profound dose-dependent depression of cerebral glucose metabolism in association with behavioral and electroencephalographic abnormalities . alterations in the amino acid profile , similar to those described in cancer patients after high-dose methotrexate treatment , were observed in the absence of biochemical evidence of systemic organ toxicity . this model facilitates the study of the biochemical mechanisms of antifolate neurotoxicity in humans and permits the evaluation of potential therapeutic interventions . 
effect of testosterone on muscle protein synthesis in myotonic dystrophy . muscle wasting in myotonic dystrophy may result from decreased muscle anabolic processes rather than from increased catabolism . male patients with myotonic dystrophy often have low levels of circulating androgens , and androgen administration has been shown to increase their muscle mass . we have studied the effect of testosterone enanthate administration ( 3 mg / kg weekly for 3 months ) on muscle and whole body protein synthesis in 6 male patients with myotonic dystrophy . muscle protein synthesis was estimated from the rate of isotope incorporation into muscle protein obtained by quadriceps muscle biopsy during a primed continuous infusion of l- [ 1-13c ] leucine . testosterone administration resulted in a significant increase in muscle protein synthesis in all patients . whole body protein synthesis did not increase , indicating that protein synthesis in other tissues may have declined . muscle ribonucleic acid content rose significantly in response to testosterone administration , suggesting that testosterone initiated its effect by hormone receptor interaction with muscle nuclei . 
subclasses of event-related potentials : response-locked and stimulus-locked components . the manner in which information processing proceeds and the relationship of the components of the cerebral " event-related " evoked potential ( erp ) to the presumed stages of such processing are uncertain . we studied these relationships by recording long-latency evoked potentials from the scalp in conjunction with electromyographic ( emg ) recording in experiments in which subjects were required to make a motor response to one of two auditory stimuli . the cerebral response was averaged from the tone onset ( stimulus-synchronized average ) and the emg onset ( response-synchronized average ) . we found that n2 was quite distinct from the other erp components ( p165 and p3 ) in its lack of a close relationship to the motor response required in a sensory discrimination task . this suggests that , contrary to general belief , the p165-n2-p3 components of the erp are not generated in an orderly sequence , but rather are generated separately and are possibly related to different cognitive processes . 
a postmortem study of amino acid neurotransmitters in alzheimer 's disease . concentrations of putative neurotransmitter amino acids were measured in postmortem brains from 10 patients with alzheimer 's disease and 10 controls . glutamate , aspartate , taurine , gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) , and alanine levels were examined in 9 cortical regions , hippocampus , thalamus , and basal ganglia using high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection . there were no significant alterations in aspartate , taurine , or alanine levels in any of the regions examined . widespread significant reductions in cortical gaba concentrations were observed in the alzheimer 's brains , with the largest decreases in the temporal lobe . overall values for glutamate concentrations in temporal and frontal cortices showed a significant 12 % reduction in alzheimer 's brains , but the only individual cortical region showing a significant reduction in glutamate was the inferior temporal gyrus . these results suggest that gamma-aminobutyric acidergic neurons in alzheimer 's cerebral cortex may be selectively vulnerable to the disease process . 
incidence , clinical features , and prognosis in bell 's palsy , rochester , minnesota , 1968-1982 . the average annual incidence of bell 's palsy per 100 , 000 population in rochester , minnesota , for 1968 through 1982 was 25.0 for both sexes combined ; crude rates for males and females were 22.8 and 26.9 , respectively , based on 85 males and 121 females . the relationship between various clinical features , patient characteristics , and the type of recovery was analyzed . in 206 patients , 28 ( 14 % ) experienced incomplete recovery and 178 ( 86 % ) had complete recovery , based on evidence in the medical records . using logistic regression , complete facial weakness , non-ear pain , and hypertension were identified as the most important risk factors for incomplete recovery . patients were divided into two groups for comparison of treatment results ; one group ( n = 94 ) was without any of the three identified risk factors , and the other group ( n = 112 ) consisted of patients who had one or more risk factors . results suggested that among the latter group , those treated with steroids fared better than those in any of the other treatment groups . 
cholinergic muscarinic binding by human lymphocytes : changes with aging , antagonist treatment , and senile dementia of the alzheimer type . in peripheral blood lymphocytes ( mixed lymphocytes isolated on a ficoll-hypaque density gradient ) derived from normal human subjects , cholinergic muscarinic binding capacity was found to increase with age . in contrast , lymphocytes derived from patients with " probable " senile dementia of the alzheimer type ( sdat ) exhibited a marked reduction in binding capacity . treatment of these patients with antimuscarinic drugs was associated with increased muscarinic binding by lymphocytes . these results indicate that cholinergic muscarinic binding by peripheral blood lymphocytes may be useful in the study of alterations associated with aging and sdat , as well as in evaluating changes induced by certain cholinergic drug treatments . 
developmental foix-chavany-marie syndrome in identical twins . foix , chavany , and marie described a syndrome of faciopharyngoglossomasticatory diplegia resulting from bilateral anterior opercular infarction . we describe identical twins who have a developmental form of the syndrome . the twins , aged 41 years , were the product of a normal pregnancy and birth , but had subsequent delayed motor milestones , seizures , poor language development , mild mental retardation , drooling , absent gag reflexes , inability to protrude the tongue , brisk jaw jerks , impaired fine finger movements , symmetrical brisk reflexes , flexor plantar responses , and mildly spastic gait . magnetic resonance imaging showed bilateral perisylvian cortical dysplasia compatible with polymicrogyria and incomplete opercular formation . 
spontaneous vertical eye movements in coma . patients in coma may exhibit several different types of spontaneous ocular movements . three forms of spontaneous vertical movements have been distinguished based on the relative velocities of their downward and upward phases . the pathophysiological basis of all these movements has remained obscure . two patients are reported who demonstrated all three types of spontaneous vertical movements ( ocular bobbing , ocular dipping , and reverse ocular bobbing ) , implying that the movements may all be differing manifestations of the still unknown pathophysiological process . 
spastic pure motor monoparesis . pure motor hemiplegia ( pmh ) is , in most cases , caused by a lacunar infarction . however , pure motor monoparesis ( pmm ) , i.e. , isolated motor involvement with spasticity in one limb , has drawn little attention . we studied prospectively 5 patients with pmm and found that it was always due to a mass lesion in the contralateral superficial cerebral hemisphere . our observation suggests that pmm should not be regarded as simply a variant of pmh . 
botulism in a patient with jejunoileal bypass . a 45-year-old woman was diagnosed as having the unclassified form of botulism . her intestines may have been predisposed to colonization with clostridium botulinum because of a jejunoileal bypass procedure that had been done several years earlier . one other similar case has been reported . 
schwannoma presenting as lumbar disc disease in an adolescent boy . lumbar disc disease and spinal cord tumors occur relatively rarely in the pediatric age group . we report on a 16-year-old boy who presented with signs and symptoms of lumbar disc disease that failed to respond to conservative treatment . he was diagnosed preoperatively to have schwannoma of the s-1 root . 
evaluation of patients with multiple sclerosis by evoked potentials and magnetic resonance imaging : a comparative study . we compared the diagnostic usefulness of evoked potential ( ep ) studies and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) in the evaluation of 27 patients with definite or probable multiple sclerosis ( ms ) . mri scans demonstrated multiple lesions in 21 patients whereas ep studies showed multiple abnormalities in 14 patients ( 4 of whom had only somatosensory ep abnormalities ) . eighteen patients had similar mri and ep results ( e.g. , normal or multiple abnormalities ) , 8 had multiple abnormalities shown by mri but normal or single-modality abnormal eps , and 1 had multiple abnormal eps but a normal mri scan . there was no significant difference in the sensitivity of the two techniques in detecting multiple lesions in the patients with definite ms , whereas among those with probable ms , mri had a significantly higher yield . seventeen patients showed clinical evidence of posterior fossa involvement , 6 patients had abnormal brainstem auditory evoked potentials ( baeps ) , and 4 patients had areas of increased signal intensity revealed by mri of the brainstem . there was no clinical evidence of brainstem involvement in 2 patients with baep abnormalities , 2 with an abnormal posterior fossa shown by mri , and one patient with abnormalities shown by both baep and mri . we conclude that mri is more sensitive in detecting multiple lesions than are multimodality ep studies , but that baep assessment may be slightly more sensitive than mri in detecting brainstem lesions . 
guillain-barre syndrome complicating typhoid fever [ letter ] 
efficacy of alcohol-based hand rinses under frequent-use conditions . fifty volunteers randomly assigned to one of five hand washing agents ( 10 subjects per agent ) --a nonantiseptic liquid soap ( control ) , an antiseptic hand rinse containing 60 % isopropyl alcohol ( ipa ) with emollients ( alc a ) , an antiseptic hand rinse containing 70 % ipa and 0.5 % chlorhexidine gluconate with emollients ( alc b ) , an antiseptic containing 4 % chlorhexidine gluconate and 4 % ipa ( chg ) , and 70 % ipa--washed their hands 15 times per day for 5 days under supervision by using a standardized technique and measured amounts of test agent . microbiologic samples of hand flora were obtained at base line and after hand washes 1 and 15 on test days 1 and 5. after the initial hand wash there were significant reductions over base line in aerobic and anaerobic log cfu among those using alc a , chg , and ipa . by the end of the first day of hand washing ( 15 washes ) , there were 2-log or greater reductions in aerobic counts among subjects using all antiseptics , but no significant reductions in controls . by the end of day 5 , all agents produced significant reductions in aerobic ( p = 0.0002 ) and anaerobic ( p = 0.002 ) counts over control soap . subject assessment of effects of hand washing on the skin and overall satisfaction varied significantly by product ( p = 0.04 and 0.05 , respectively ) . we conclude that alcohol-based hand rinses are highly efficacious , and such products are recommended as a health care personnel hand wash , particularly when sink and running water are inaccessible . 
effect of saturable serum protein binding on the pharmacokinetics of unbound cefonicid in humans . previous studies have demonstrated high , concentration-dependent serum protein binding of cefonicid . to determine the in vivo pharmacokinetic significance of these observations , the pharmacokinetics of both total and unbound ( non-protein-bound ) cefonicid was studied in six volunteers after a single intravenous dose of 30 mg / kg . saturable serum protein binding was observed in vivo ; the mean + / - standard deviation free fraction of cefonicid was 17.6 + / - 6.1 % immediately after administration and declined to a constant value of approximately 2 % as total serum concentrations fell below 100 micrograms / ml . this nonlinear binding was associated with a pronounced decline in unbound serum cefonicid concentrations during the first 3 h after administration , with low or undetectable unbound drug concentrations by 12 h . renal clearance of total cefonicid averaged 21.1 ml / min per kg and did not vary with time ; in contrast , the mean + / - standard deviation unbound cefonicid renal clearance increased from 5.7 + / - 2.1 to 10.8 + / - 1.6 ml / min per kg with time ( p less than 0.02 ) . this study may partially explain the poor results obtained with single daily dosing of cefonicid in endocarditis . dosage regimens of certain antimicrobial agents with high , saturable serum protein binding and extensive renal tubular secretion may be most appropriately designed based on unbound drug pharmacokinetics . 
failure of norfloxacin to eradicate chlamydia trachomatis in nongonococcal urethritis . norfloxacin has some activity in vitro against chlamydia trachomatis and ureaplasma urealyticum , although not at levels attainable in serum . in this study , norfloxacin was administered ( 400 mg orally twice daily for 10 days ) to men with acute nongonococcal urethritis . of 25 men from whom c . trachomatis was initially isolated , 21 had the organism reisolated at the first follow-up visit posttreatment , and there were minimal changes in the number of inclusion-forming units in culture . ultimately , all but 1 of the 22 men from whom c . trachomatis was initially isolated and who were monitored became clinical failures within 42 + / - 7 days posttreatment . the clinical outcome was significantly better for men from whom u . urealyticum was initially isolated but from whom c . trachomatis was not isolated . of 27 men , 17 became and stayed culture negative for u . urealyticum at follow-ups , and clinically , 15 no longer had nongonococcal urethritis . of these 15 , all 12 monitored until at least 42 + / - 7 days posttreatment remained improved . of 26 men from whom neither c . trachomatis nor u . urealyticum was initially isolated , 18 improved and all 15 who were monitored until at least 42 + / - 7 days posttreatment remained improved . thus , although norfloxacin attains high levels in urine and has good tissue penetration , it had essentially no activity against chlamydial urethritis in men . it had better , but incomplete , activity against u . urealyticum . for quinolones to show promise in vivo against c . trachomatis , either the mics will need to be much lower or the levels attained in serum will have to be much higher . 
ciprofloxacin therapy for mediterranean spotted fever . we report the treatment of five patients with mediterranean spotted fever with the antimicrobial agent ciprofloxacin . the treatment was administered intravenously for 2 days and then perorally for 8 days . all five patients were cured . these preliminary data seem to correlate with the in vitro activity of ciprofloxacin against rickettsia conorii . 
interferon in the prevention of genital herpes recurrence . patients with genital herpes were treated three times weekly for 12 weeks with 3 x 10 ( 6 ) iu of alpha 2b interferon ( 20 patients ) or placebo ( 17 patients ) administered by subcutaneous injection in a double-blind trial . interferon had minimal effects on the suppression of recurrences and moderate toxicity ( chills , fever , fatigue , and leukopenia ) , suggesting that this route and dosage of interferon may not be clinically useful for this indication . 
pharmacokinetics and sputum penetration of ciprofloxacin in patients with cystic fibrosis . levels of ciprofloxacin in serum and sputum were studied for eight patients with cystic fibrosis who were infected with pseudomonas aeruginosa . patients were studied in a steady state on a dosage of 500 mg every 8 h . peak levels in serum ranged from 1.27 to 5.6 mg / liter ( mean , 3.16 + / - 1.27 ) , and absorption was rapid , the time to peak concentration ranging from 0.5 to 3.0 h ( mean , 1.5 + / - 0.9 ) . the antibiotic penetrated sputum well , achieving areas under the curve of approximately 46 % of those obtained in serum . 
enhancement of ketoconazole penetration across the blood-brain barrier of mice by dimethyl sulfoxide . mice were treated with ketoconazole with and without dimethyl sulfoxide . concentrations of ketoconazole at 3 and 5 h after treatment were significantly higher in serum ( p less than 0.05 ) and brain tissue homogenate ( p less than 0.01 ) of mice treated with dimethyl sulfoxide than in those of mice not treated with dimethyl sulfoxide . 
comparative study of cefoperazone and spectinomycin for treatment of uncomplicated gonorrhea in men . beta-lactamase-negative neisseria gonorrhoeae infections were treated with single-dose cefoperazone ( 0.5 or 1.0 g ) or spectinomycin ( 2.0 g ) . anogenital infections were cured in 36 ( 83 % ) of 43 volunteers given 0.5 g of cefoperazone , 61 of 61 volunteers given 1.0 g of cefoperazone , and 99 of 100 volunteers given spectinomycin . the cefoperazone geometric mean mic for 242 isolates was 0.028 microgram / ml . cefoperazone ( 1.0 g ) and spectinomycin ( 2.0 g ) are comparable for the therapy of anogenital gonorrhea in men . 
antibiotic resistance patterns of vibrio mimicus isolated from human and environmental sources in bangladesh . twenty-five environmental and 19 clinical strains of vibrio mimicus were tested for antibiotic susceptibility patterns . environmental strains were resistant to streptomycin , kanamycin , and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole ; clinical strains were susceptible . environmental strains showed variable resistance to ampicillin ( 44 % ) , but clinical strains were susceptible . all strains tested were susceptible to chloramphenicol and gentamicin . 
comparison of susceptibility of gentamicin-resistant and -susceptible " acinetobacter anitratus " to 15 alternative antibiotics . fifty-four clinical isolates of " acinetobacter anitratus " separated cleanly into gentamicin-susceptible ( 16 strains ) and gentamicin-resistant ( 38 strains ) subpopulations . when tested with a 10 ( 4 ) -cfu inoculum , gentamicin resistance was associated with a greater than fourfold increase in the mics of norfloxacin , ciprofloxacin , a-56620 , tobramycin , and amikacin for 50 % of the strains . antimicrobial agents with mics for 90 % of gentamicin-resistant strains in the susceptible range were ciprofloxacin , a-56619 , a-56620 , imipenem , sch-34343 , ceftazidime , aztreonam , carbenicillin , ticarcillin , and piperacillin . these agents may be useful alternative drugs for treating infections caused by aminoglycoside-susceptible and -resistant " a . anitratus . " 
bioassay for sf 86-327 , a new antifungal agent . a bioassay with trichophyton mentagrophytes is described for sf 86-327 , an allylamine antifungal agent . sf 86-327 serum concentrations were measured by bioassay in 117 serum sampler from five patients receiving 500 mg / day . the peak , trough , and area under the concentration-time curve were determined after the first dose and at steady state . drug accumulation occurred with prolonged therapy . 
frequency of four classes of tetracycline resistance determinants in salmonella and shigella spp . clinical isolates . the frequencies of tetracycline resistance determinants of the classes a , b , c , and d were determined in 53 non-lactose-fermenting clinical isolates . the most frequent class of determinant in salmonella typhimurium and shigella flexneri strains was class b ; however , the predominant determinant in shigella sonnei strains was class c . 
correlation of the vasoconstrictor assay and clinical activity in psoriasis [ letter ] 
the sign of leser-trelat in a young man . 
metastatic transitional cell carcinoma mimicking zoster sine herpete . 
cutaneous reaction to chlorambucil therapy . 
unilateral hyperkeratosis of the nipple : the response to cryotherapy . 
granuloma annulare and amniotic band syndrome . 
human effects following exposure to ionizing radiation . the accident at chernobyl--the data from hiroshima and nagasaki [ editorial ] 
record linkage . a powerful tool for epidemiologic analysis [ editorial ] 
dermatologic radiotherapy . the risk-benefit ratio [ editorial ] 
characteristic immunologic profile of large atypical cells in lymphomatoid papulosis . possible implications for histogenesis and relationship to other diseases [ editorial ] 
incidence of malignant skin tumors in 14 , 140 patients after grenz-ray treatment for benign skin disorders . during the years 1949 to 1975 , 14 , 237 patients received therapeutic doses of grenz rays for the treatment of benign skin disorders such as chronic eczema , psoriasis , and warts . the records of 14 , 140 of these patients ( 99.3 % ) formed the basis for an epidemiologic study of the incidence of skin malignancies in this population . information about the patients , diagnoses , doses , and sites of treatment was obtained from separate records . the follow-up time was 15 years on the average . we searched the swedish cancer registry , stockholm , for records reporting the incidence of malignant skin tumors in the study population ( incidences of basal cell carcinoma are not registered ) . the expected number of malignancies was calculated on the basis of age- and sex-standardized incidence data from the swedish cancer registry . in 58 patients , a malignant skin tumor was diagnosed more than five years after grenz-ray therapy had first been administered . nineteen patients had malignant melanomas , and 39 patients had other malignant skin tumors . the expected number of melanomas was 17.8 , and that of other malignant skin tumors was 26.9 . none of the patients with melanomas , and only eight of the patients with other malignant skin tumors , had received grenz-ray therapy at the site of the tumor . six of these eight patients had also been exposed to other known carcinogens . four hundred eighty-one patients had received an accumulated high dose of grenz rays ( greater than or equal to 10 000 rad [ greater than or equal to 100 gy ] ) on one and the same area . no malignancies were found on those areas . although we cannot exclude grenz-ray therapy as a risk factor in the development of nonmelanoma skin malignancies , this risk , if any , is small , if recommendations for therapy are followed . 
blood pressure as a parameter in dermatologic surgery . elevated blood pressure is a major cause of perioperative bleeding and postoperative hematoma . seventy-five patients scheduled for dermatologic surgical procedures were prospectively asked if they were aware of any personal history of hypertension . if patient response alone is relied on as a preoperative screen for hypertension , over half of the individuals affected with this disease will be missed . epinephrine-containing local anesthetics were found not to increase blood pressure in doses commonly employed by dermatologists ; in fact , they lowered blood pressure in hypertensive individuals . 
recurrent coumarin-induced skin necrosis in a patient with an acquired functional protein c deficiency . an elderly woman who had been receiving long-term oral anticoagulant therapy developed skin and subcutaneous fat necrosis on five repeated occasions of extreme hypocoagulability , associated with coinciding periods of congestive cardiac failure . in each episode , the skin necrosis developed within days after the prothrombin time ( as determined with thrombotest ) exceeded 200 s ( international normalized ratio greater than 5.4 ) . widespread thrombosis in the subcutaneous vasculature and interstitial bleeding , as observed in a skin biopsy specimen , were consistent with a diagnosis of coumarin necrosis . on two occasions , an acquired functional protein c deficiency was present . it is hypothesized that an imbalance between anticoagulant and procoagulant vitamin k-dependent factors contributed to the pathogenesis of coumarin-induced skin necrosis . this imbalance was related to repeated periods of congestive heart failure . 
toxic erythema of palms and soles associated with high-dose mercaptopurine chemotherapy . we encountered a case of distinctive palmar-plantar erythema with desquamation of the fingers in a patient receiving high-dose mercaptopurine combined with allopurinol . he was receiving 400 mg / d of mercaptopurine with 200 mg / d of allopurinol when a painful , livid erythema involving his hands and feet developed . over the ensuing 24 hours , desquamation of the distal fingertips was noted . the mercaptopurine was discontinued and the patient was treated with topical fluocinonide ointment under occlusion . over the next 96 hours , the erythema and pain resolved entirely . to date , this is the eighth case of a painful desquamating erythema of the palms and soles occurring as a complication of chemotherapy . we suggest that high-dose mercaptopurine combined with allopurinol that blocks xanthine oxidase , a necessary enzyme in the catabolism of mercaptopurine , was responsible for our patient 's clinical presentation . 
acquired port-wine stain . the development of a capillary hemangioma in adult life is an unusual event . these lesions normally occur as congenital cutaneous nevi . we describe the history and histologic findings in a man who developed such a lesion after a cricket ball injury to the right cheek at age 46 years . the literature on acquired port-wine stain is reviewed . discussion is centered on whether there are factors predisposing to this response to injury and whether damage to autonomic nerves is important . 
scleredema in an infant . a 3-month-old infant with scleredema had associated cytomegalovirus pneumonia with a rapidly fatal course . because differentiation of scleredema from scleredema neonatorum , subcutaneous fat necrosis , and scleroderma may be difficult , histologic diagnosis is important . cetylpyridinium chloride was used successfully as a fixative to demonstrate acid mucopolysaccharides histologically . 
erythematosquamous skin lesions in hereditary lactate dehydrogenase m-subunit deficiency . peculiar erythematosquamous lesions were observed in two adult patients in japan with hereditary lactate dehydrogenase m-subunit deficiency . although these patients showed excessive fatigue and myoglobulinuria after extended exercise , they were usually asymptomatic . however , nonpruritic follicular papules or erythematous patches with scaly edges were present on the extensor surfaces of the extremities of these patients since childhood , showing some improvement after puberty . there were also erythematous patches on the weight-bearing areas of their soles . these patches showed exacerbation and a tendency toward peripheral spreading in summer . these skin lesions provide an important clue in the detection of this genetic enzyme deficiency . 
nodular primary cutaneous amyloidosis . isolation and characterization of amyloid fibrils . a case of nodular cutaneous amyloidosis and sjogren 's syndrome occurred in a 63-year-old woman . nodules had been seen for the past ten years and sjogren 's syndrome had accompanied amyloidosis for the last three years . the concomitant occurrence of nodular cutaneous amyloidosis and sjogren 's syndrome may not be by chance , since four of 12 cases of nodular cutaneous amyloidosis that have been reported to date in japan were in patients with both amyloidosis and sjogren 's syndrome . the amyloid deposits in the tissue were stained with anti-lambda light-chain amyloid antibody . amyloid fibrils were purified from the skin lesions in this patient and were characterized biochemically , immunologically , and ultrastructurally . the results indicated that the amyloid fibrils consisted of 29 , 000- , 20 , 000- , and 17 , 000- dalton peptides , the 29 , 000-dalton peptide of which was shown to react with the lambda light chain of immunoglobulin by immunoblot study . 
subungual tumors in incontinentia pigmenti . a 22-year-old woman presented with intermittently painful subungual keratotic tumors of the hands as a late manifestation of incontinentia pigmenti . scalloped bony deformities of the distal phalanges of both hands were noted on roentgenograms . the origin of these lytic deformities is uncertain ; they may be secondary pressure phenomena or , alternatively , they may be an intrinsic manifestation of incontinentia pigmenti . these subungual tumors clinically resemble verrucae , keratoacanthomas , squamous cell carcinomas , or subungual fibromas . therefore , it is important to recognize that subungual keratotic tumors may be a late manifestation of incontinentia pigmenti . 
alopecia , photosensitivity , and arthritis . 
recent onset of gingival enlargement . 
widespread eruption in a patient from haiti . 
the sweat test [ editorial ] 
the intrauterine hazards of twins [ editorial ] 
current state of theophylline in asthma [ editorial ] 
sleep apnoea during upper respiratory infection and metabolic alkalosis in infancy . three to four hour polygraphic sleep studies were carried out in 10 infants , five with upper respiratory infection and five with metabolic alkalosis secondary to vomiting during and after recovery from illness . during upper respiratory infection , the main abnormality detected was brief ( greater than 3 less than 6 seconds ) or prolonged ( greater than 6 seconds ) attacks of obstructive apnoea . other indices of apnoea were similar to recovery data . gross body movements were also increased . in infants with metabolic alkalosis indices of central apnoea were significantly increased when compared with recovery or case control data . prolonged ( greater than 15 seconds ) attacks of central apnoea and obstructive apnoea ( greater than 6 seconds ) were only observed during illness . gross body movements and periodic breathing were also increased . these findings suggest that the functional consequences of apparently ' mild ' illnesses in young infants may be greater than is generally suspected and perhaps relevant to mechanism ( s ) of death in sudden infant death syndrome . 
dietary copper intake in artificially fed infants . plasma concentrations of copper and zinc and leucocyte concentrations of zinc were measured in mothers during later pregnancy , at delivery , and 8-10 weeks after birth , and plasma concentrations of copper and zinc were measured in their infants at delivery and 8-10 weeks after birth . the 145 infants were either breast fed or fed one of two milk formulas supplying copper at different concentrations . none of the infants achieved the minimum copper intakes recommended by the world health organisation ( who ) . at 2 months of age there were no major differences in growth or health detected in infants fed the different copper intakes . infant birth weight correlated well with the ratio of maternal venous plasma zinc : maternal leucocyte zinc at delivery . maternal venous plasma copper and zinc concentrations at birth correlated with umbilical venous plasma copper and zinc concentrations . infants fed the higher copper content formulas had a low mean plasma zinc concentration without a significant increase in the mean plasma copper concentration . the present who recommendations regarding minimum copper intakes for infants fed formulas cannot be achieved with currently available formulas and are probably wrong . 
thiopentone induced coma after severe birth asphyxia . the aim of this study was to determine the feasibility of inducing a prolonged coma in severely asphyxiated newborn babies by the infusion of high dose thiopentone . in six severely asphyxiated babies the electroencephalograph ( eeg ) and blood pressure were monitored continuously . thiopentone was infused at a rate sufficient to suppress completely the eeg providing the mean blood pressure remained above 35 mm hg ; it was continued until there was no evidence of cerebral oedema for 24 hours . in two the infusion was stopped prematurely because of hypotension that was unresponsive to treatment . in the other four a deep coma was maintained for a median duration of 127 hours . all developed pharmacodynamic tolerance to the thiopentone and showed non-linear elimination kinetics . three babies died ; the three survivors have moderate to severe handicap . it was concluded that with full intensive care it is possible to induce a deep coma ; the outcome does not seem to be improved , however , and the incidence of complications was high . 
head size , brain growth , and lateral ventricles in very low birthweight infants . ninety eight newborn infants weighing less than 1500 g at birth and with gestational ages from 26 to 32 weeks were followed prospectively . they were grouped according to real time ultrasound scans in the neonatal period : infants in group a ( n = 20 ) had periventricular haemorrhage ( pvh ) and normal ventricles ; infants in group b ( n = 26 ) had pvh and dilated ventricles ( none with clinical hydrocephalus ) ; and infants in group c , who formed the control group ( n = 52 ) , had no pvh and normal ventricles . at outpatient follow up a static image ultrasound scanner was used to measure the width of the lateral ventricles and brain hemispheres . the three groups of infants showed similar growth in occipitofrontal circumference , biparietal diameter , and brain hemispheres irrespective of a history of pvh or ventricular dilatation . the relation of ventricle size to biparietal diameter was similar in those infants in groups a ( pvh alone ) and c ( controls ) who had a good outcome . about a third ( n = 8 ) of the infants in group b had persistent ventricular dilatation in relation to biparietal diameter and a poor outcome associated with developmental delay and cerebral palsy . by contrast , the remaining two thirds ( n = 18 ) of the infants in group b who later had smaller ventricles in relation to biparietal diameter showed fewer neurodevelopmental sequelae . it is suggested that persistent ventricular dilatation in relation to biparietal diameter at follow up carries a bad prognosis , which might be due to brain atrophy . 
age specific xerophthalmia rates among displaced ethiopians . the recent famine in ethiopia has resulted in the dislocation of millions of people . many of these individuals have moved to refugee camps in sudan or to feeding centres within ethiopia . a total of 1325 children up to the age of 15 years were examined by an ophthalmologist in january 1985 at several sites in these two countries . the rates of bitot 's spots were three times greater in those between the ages of 7 and 10 compared with those under 7. rates of corneal xerosis were comparable for each group . previously , xerophthalmia was considered predominantly to affect children aged under 6. these data document the presence of the disease in older children and raise questions regarding future modifications in the prevention and treatment of xerophthalmia . 
interaction between chloramphenicol and acetaminophen . acetaminophen has been reported either to prolong or not to affect the clearance of chloramphenicol . to confirm one of these findings we studied the clearance of chloramphenicol and its metabolites using high pressure liquid chromatography in five patients ( ages 2.5 to 5 years ) before and during oral treatment with acetaminophen ( 50 mg / kg / day ) . significant differences were observed in mean ( sd ) peak serum chloramphenicol concentration ( -9.7 ( 3.2 ) mg / l ) , mean ( sd ) apparent volume of distribution ( +225 ( 162 ) ml / kg ) , mean ( sd ) chloramphenicol half life ( -1.9 ( 1.1 ) hours ) , mean ( sd ) chloramphenicol clearance ( +236 ( 94 ) ml / kg / h ) , mean ( sd ) area under the curve ( -83.5 ( 33.0 ) mg / l / h ) , and mean ( sd ) elimination constant ( +0.34 ( 0.13 ) h-1 ) between samples obtained before and during treatment with acetaminophen . acetaminophen , when given orally for several days , increased the clearance of chloramphenicol , perhaps by increased glucuronidation . this report re-emphasises the need for therapeutic drug monitoring whenever these two drugs are used together . 
sleep apnoea in infants with congenital stridor . indices of central apnoea , respiration rate , heart rate , and body movements were comparable in seven infants with congenital stridor ( infantile larynx ) and matched controls . obstructive sleep apnoea was only observed in three of seven infants with stridor . periodic breathing was less common in infants with stridor than in controls . 
intestinal malabsorption in cystic fibrosis . an oral solution containing lactulose and l-rhamnose was administered to six patients with cystic fibrosis . intestinal absorption of both sugars was assessed by measurement of their urinary excretion . the lactulose : l-rhamnose excretion ratio was raised , supporting the hypothesis of an intestinal component to the malabsorption of cystic fibrosis . 
gastrografin in acute meconium ileus equivalent . twenty-five ( 37 % ) patients with cystic fibrosis attending our clinic have experienced acute meconium ileus equivalent . in one year 37 of 40 episodes were treated with single dose oral gastrografin with an 81 % success rate , 75 % being treated as outpatients . patients found this treatment preferable to other recommended treatment . 
spontaneous subhyaloid and retinal haemorrhages in an infant . a 6 week old girl from a socially isolated family presented with seizures and was found to have a full fontanelle , retinal and subhyaloid haemorrhages , and anaemia . these findings were not the result of a shaking injury but of a ruptured intracerebral arterial aneurysm . 
stool water in preterm neonates . data are presented on faecal water losses in 93 preterm infants being fed breast milk ( 72 infant days ) or formula ( 280 days ) . losses per kg increased to 4 weeks , when they amounted to 11 % of water requirement in infants fed breast milk and 8 % in infants fed formula . 
nebulisers--uses and abuses [ letter ] 
diagnosis of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency in cystic fibrosis by use of fluorescein dilaurate test [ letter ] 
neonatal tuberculosis [ letter ] 
congenital anomalies associated with hypothyroidism [ letter ] 
endotracheal suction techniques in the neonate [ letter ] 
abdominal pain in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome . the patient with acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) and abdominal pain presents the surgeon with a difficult challenge . the pain may be due to an opportunistic infection , ileus , organomegaly , or a true surgical emergency . the hospital records of 235 patients with aids were reviewed . of the 29 patients with abdominal pain , 12 had infectious diarrhea , eight were diagnosed as having ileus or organomegaly , and nine had miscellaneous causes for their pain . only five patients underwent laparotomy . two patients were operated on for pain associated with bleeding ( meckel 's diverticulum and intestinal kaposi 's sarcoma ) ; one had a perforated duodenal ulcer and one had severe ileitis . one patient was electively operated on for burkitt 's lymphoma . laparotomy for abdominal pain is not usually necessary in patients with aids . specific recommendations for evaluation and management of these patients are offered . 
sexual function in women after proctocolectomy . one hundred women who had undergone proctocolectomy with a continence-preserving procedure ( 50 kock pouches , 50 ileoanal anastomoses ) for ulcerative colitis or polyposis coli were interviewed regarding their preoperative and postoperative sexual function . frequency of intercourse increased and the incidence of dyspareunia decreased after operation in both groups . patients who had a kock pouch had a greater incidence of persistent postoperative dyspareunia than patients who underwent an ileoanal procedure ( 38 % vs . 18 % , p less than 0.02 ) . only one patient in each group reported a postoperative disturbance in ability to achieve orgasm . most women reported no change in their menstrual cycle , but patients with a kock pouch had more episodic vaginal discharge than patients with an ileoanal anastomosis ( 18 % vs . 0 % , p less than 0.001 ) . postoperative fertility was minimally impaired . overall , the majority of women in this study who underwent proctocolectomy for benign diseases experienced enhanced sexual function after operation , which they attributed mainly to improved health . 
the oxidation of body fuel stores in cancer patients . in an attempt to define the mechanism of weight loss in cancer patients , fat and carbohydrate oxidation rates were calculated in 93 patients . seventy patients with colorectal or gastric cancer were compared with a control group of 23 patients with nonmalignant illness . twenty-seven patients with cancer and 13 control patients had lost more than 10 % of their pre-illness body weight . fat and carbohydrate oxidation rates were derived from measurements of oxygen consumption , carbon dioxide production , and urinary nitrogen excretion . patients with cancer had significantly higher fat oxidation rates ( p less than 0.01 ) and significantly lower carbohydrate oxidation rates ( p less than 0.05 ) when compared with controls . weight-losing cancer patients had significantly higher fat oxidation rates when compared with weight-stable cancer patients ( p less than 0.02 ) , weight-stable controls ( p less than 0.01 ) , and weight-losing controls ( p less than 0.02 ) . cancer patients with liver metastases ( n = 14 ) had significantly higher fat oxidation rates ( p less than 0.01 ) and significantly lower carbohydrate oxidation rates ( p less than 0.01 ) compared with cancer patients who had localized disease . there were no significant differences among the groups with respect to resting energy expenditure when expressed as kilocalorie per kilogram lean body mass per day . the presence of cancer appears to be associated with abnormal fat and carbohydrate metabolism . the increased rate of fat oxidation seen in patients with cancer , especially those with weight loss or liver metastases , may be a significant factor in the development of cancer cachexia . 
successful treatment of osteomyelitis and soft tissue infections in ischemic diabetic legs by local antibiotic injections and the end-diastolic pneumatic compression boot . thirty-four legs at risk of amputation due to peripheral arterial insufficiency associated with ischemic necrosis , soft tissue infections , osteomyelitis , and variable degrees of peripheral neuropathy were reported in 28 diabetic patients . amputation had been considered in 27 legs for which standard therapies had failed for the current illness and in two legs in which standard therapy had failed for previous illnesses . local therapy was the initial form of therapy for five legs in which standard therapy appeared likely to fail . infection was controlled in all patients with the use of local antibiotics and compression boot therapy . early leg amputation was avoided in all but one patient . late leg amputation occurred in two patients who were lost to follow-up care . osteomyelitis , ischemic necrosis , and advanced soft tissue infection were shown not to be clear-cut indications for amputation in the ischemic diabetic foot . 
postcholecystectomy wound infection . the impact of prophylactic antibiotics on the epidemiology of infections . the clinical courses of 347 patients undergoing gallbladder surgeries were monitored to study the epidemiology of postcholecystectomy wound infection in a hospital in which high-risk patients received prophylactic antibiotics . overall , 3.8 % of patients had wound infections . patients who had positive bile cultures taken during surgery or positive intraoperative wound cultures had higher rates of infection than patients with negative cultures . however , there was a poor correlation among the bacterial isolates that were recovered from the bile or the wound surface during surgery and from postoperative infections . antibiotic-sensitive enteric bacteria were recovered from bile samples at surgery , gram-positive organisms and enteric gram-negative bacteria were isolated from intraoperative cultures of the wound surface , and antibiotic-resistant gram-negative bacteria or enterococci were recovered from wounds that developed postoperative infections . there was a strong association between the prior receipt of prophylactic antibiotics and infections with antibiotic-resistant bacteria . data suggest that bactibilia is still an important epidemiologic marker that identifies patients at high risk for subsequent wound infection . however , in patients who have received prophylactic antibiotics , intraoperative cultures cannot be relied on to guide the choice of empiric therapeutic antibiotics for postoperative infections . bacteria responsible for these infections are not identified by cultures taken at the time of surgery and are often resistant to the class of antibiotics used for prophylaxis . 
pylorus-preserving pancreatoduodenectomy . a clinical and physiologic appraisal . since 1978 , 252 patients from different centers in the world have undergone pylorus-preserving pancreatoduodenectomy . fifty-five per cent of the patients had malignant tumors in the region of the head of the pancreas . the overall operative mortality rate was 2.8 % . anastomotic leakage and fistulae occurred in 19 % of the patients . pancreatic , biliary , and enteric fistulae represented 11 % , 4 % , and 4 % , respectively . peptic ulcers were subsequently diagnosed in seven patients ( 3 % ) , two of whom required vagotomy and antrectomy . delayed recovery of gastric function was the most common complication of this operation , with an overall incidence of 30 % . although the cause of this gastric dysfunction is unknown , its transient nature in most patients makes expectant therapy with gastric tube drainage the best remedy when the problem is encountered . pylorus-preserving pancreatoduodenectomy decreased the incidence of postgastric surgery syndromes that are commonly associated with the standard whipple operation . the existing data support the continued use of the operation and the need for future laboratory and clinical investigation of its physiologic impact . 
ekg guided placement of subclavian cvp catheters using j-wire . in an attempt to improve the accuracy of central venous pressure ( cvp ) catheter tip location , 84 consecutive cardiac surgery patients in sinus rhythm were studied prospectively with respect to subclavian insertion of a cvp catheter using a guidewire technique . the presence of cardiac arrhythmia was used as an index of right atrial ( ra ) location of the guidewire tip , before threading the catheter over the guidewire . correct catheter tip location ( superior vena cava [ svc ] or ra ) was achieved in 100 % of patients ( n = 78 ) with premature atrial contractions ( pacs ) related to guidewire insertion . this fell to 50 % ( n = 4 ) if no arrhythmias were noted from the guidewire . ventricular arrhythmias were noted in two of 84 patients ( 2.4 % ) . other problems related to the use of this technique are discussed . 
talc poudrage in the treatment of spontaneous pneumothoraces in patients with cystic fibrosis . as patients with cystic fibrosis live longer , spontaneous pneumothoraces are seen with increasing frequency . severe underlying pulmonary disease in these patients makes them particularly susceptible to life-threatening respiratory distress . several modalities , including chemical sclerosis and open thoracotomy with pleurectomy , have been used to treat pneumothoraces in these patients . in the past 4 years , pneumothoraces in five patients ( ages 9-22 years ) with cystic fibrosis have been treated with thoracoscopy and talc poudrage . all procedures were performed under either regional or general anesthesia , depending on the age of the patient . thoracoscopy was performed with a rod lens system and a 5.5-mm trocar , using biopsy forceps to lyse pleural adhesions , all of which ensures access to the entire pleural surface . united states pharmacopeia-certified talc was insufflated to cover the entire pleural surface . there were no complications , and the patients had minimal pleural pain . follow-up ranged from 6 months to 4 years . no patient has had a recurrent pneumothorax on the treated side . thoracoscopy with talc poudrage is a preferable alternative to chemical sclerosis or thoracotomy for treating pneumothoraces in patients with cystic fibrosis . the procedure may be performed under regional anesthesia and allows rapid and complete sclerosis of the pleural cavity . 
resuscitation from hemorrhagic shock . alterations of the intracranial pressure after normal saline , 3 % saline and dextran-40 . resuscitation from hemorrhagic shock by infusion of isotonic ( normal ) saline ( ns ) is accompanied by a transient elevation in intracranial pressure ( icp ) , although cerebral edema , as measured by brain weights at 24 hours , is prevented by adequate volume resuscitation . the transient increase in icp is not observed during hypertonic saline ( hs ) resuscitation . the effect of colloid resuscitation on icp is unknown . beagles were anesthetized , intubated , and ventilated , maintaining pco2 between 30-45 torr . femoral artery , pulmonary artery , and urethral catheters were positioned . icp was measured with a subarachnoid bolt . forty per cent of the dog 's blood volume was shed and the shock state maintained for 1 hour . resuscitation was done with shed blood and a volume of either ns ( n = 5 ) , 3 % hs ( n = 5 ) , or 10 % dextran-40 ( d-40 , n = 5 ) equal to the amount of shed blood . intravascular volume was then maintained with ns . icp fell from baseline values ( 4.7 + / - 3.13 mmhg ) during the shock state and increased greatly during initial fluid resuscitation in ns and d-40 groups , to 16.0 + / - 5.83 mmhg and 16.2 + / - 2.68 mmhg , respectively . icp returned to baseline values of 3.0 + / - 1.73 mmhg in the hs group with initial resuscitation and remained at baseline values throughout resuscitation . ns and d-40 icp were greater than hs icp at 1 hour ( p less than .001 ) and 2 hours ( p less than .05 ) after resuscitation . these results demonstrate that ns or colloid resuscitation from hemorrhagic shock elevates icp and that hs prevents elevated icp . 
n-acetyl-cysteine and prostaglandin . comparable protection against experimental ethanol injury in the stomach independent of mucus thickness . the role of barrier mucus in mediating the protective effects of 16 , 16 dimethyl pge2 ( dm pge2 ) against ethanol-induced gastric injury , with and without concomitant treatment with n-acetyl-cysteine ( nac ) , a potent mucolytic agent , was evaluated . fasted rats were orally administered either saline , 10 micrograms / kg dm pge2 , 20 % nac , or 10 micrograms / kg dm pge2 plus 20 % nac . in the first study , the rats were killed 15 minutes later and their stomachs were removed and assayed for barrier mucus adherent to the gastric wall using the alcian blue technique . in the second study , the rats were orally given 2 ml of absolute ethanol ( etoh ) after receiving one of these pretreatment regimens , and 5 minutes later they were killed and their stomachs were evaluated histologically by light microscopy for the magnitude of etoh injury . although nac significantly reduced the thickness of barrier mucus by 76 % when compared with control animals , it did not adversely affect the ability of dm pge2 to spare the deep epithelium from injury by etoh . in fact , nac was as effective a protective agent as dm pge2 . neither agent prevented damage to the surface epithelium by etoh , verifying previous studies regarding the protective effects of prostaglandins . these results indicate that both dm pge2 and nac prevent etoh-induced damage to the deeper layers of the gastric mucosa independent of mucus gel layer thickness , suggesting that other mechanisms than mucus are involved in mediating this protection . 
the anatomy of the fasciae of the face and neck with particular reference to the spread and treatment of intraoral infections ( ludwig 's ) that have progressed into adjacent fascial spaces . descriptions of the fasciae of the lower half of the face and of the adjacent cervical fasciae have long been puzzling and descriptively much too complex . for this reason , medical students , young medical and dental practitioners , and at times even senior surgeons frequently do not understand the anatomy of the cervicofacial fasciae , which plays such an important role in the spread and subsequent final localization of primary intraoral infections . this article attempts to simplify the descriptions of these fasciae , in particular , their sites of origin and insertion . 
cardiovascular changes after bilateral upper dorsal sympathectomy . short- and long-term effects . the effect of bilateral upper dorsal sympathectomy ( uds ) on cardiac function was investigated in two groups of young healthy patients who underwent bilateral excision of t2 and t3 ganglia for palmar hyperhidrosis . in ten patients echocardiography of left ventricular function ( lvf ) was performed before operation and 2 weeks after operation . electrocardiograms ( ecg ) were done before operation , during operation immediately after sectioning each sympathetic chain , and at 2 weeks after operation . the mean pulse rate decreased significantly in patients after they underwent bilateral uds . there were no clinical arrhythmias or changes in lvf in any patient . submaximal exercise testing and ecg tracings done at rest and after effort were obtained for 29 patients before undergoing bilateral uds , 30 days after operation , and 1-3 more times within a 2-year postoperative period . pulse rates taken at rest and after effort were significantly lower than those taken after operation , and the blood pressure response to exercise was blunted . ecg tracings showed a significant change in the electrical frontal plane axis and shortening of the qtc interval . these changes were evident 30 days after operation and persisted for 2 years . in conclusion , bilateral uds has no overt arrhythmogenic effect in the young , healthy heart and its beta-blocker-like effect persists for at least 2 years . 
hypercalcemia in critically ill surgical patients [ letter ] 
apicoaortic shunts for left ventricular outflow obstruction [ editorial ] 
diffuse malignant mesothelioma : a therapeutic dilemma [ editorial ] 
apicoaortic conduits for complex left ventricular outflow obstruction : 10-year experience . we interposed valved conduits between the left ventricular apex and aorta in 38 patients over a 10-year period . indications included tunnel subaortic stenosis , aortic annular hypoplasia , tubular supravalvular aortic hypoplasia , and severe calcification of the ascending aorta . operative mortality was 11 % , but 78 % of the survivors were alive at 5 years , and 70 % had had no major complication . the results were better in adolescents and adults than in young children . although complications included calcific degeneration of the valve and disruption of the conduit at the site of insertion into the ventricular apex , we continue to believe in the utility of this procedure in a few patients with complex left ventricular outflow tract obstruction . 
extrapleural pneumonectomy for diffuse , malignant mesothelioma . extrapleural pneumonectomy for malignant mesothelioma is a radical procedure that entails en bloc removal of the parietal pleura , lung , pericardium , and diaphragm . minimal tumor remains after this procedure ; palliation and occasional long-term survival may be achieved in properly selected patients . extrapleural pneumonectomy for diffuse , malignant mesothelioma was done in 33 patients ( 27 male and 6 female ) with 18 procedures on the left side and 15 on the right . there was a history of exposure to asbestos in 16 ( 48 % ) of the patients . histological classification revealed that 20 tumors were epithelial , 10 were mixed , and 3 were sarcomatous . good palliation , defined as survival for 24 months with a return to fairly normal activities , was obtained in 8 patients ( 24 % ) and survival for 36 months was achieved in 5 patients . three patients died of the disease at 59 months , 60 months , and 82 months . there were 3 operative deaths ( 9.1 % ) , and serious postoperative complications occurred in 8 patients ( 24 % ) . postoperative adjunctive therapy consisting of chemotherapy or irradiation or both was given to approximately one-half of the patients . these findings indicate that extrapleural pneumonectomy for malignant mesothelioma can be done with an acceptable morbidity and mortality . palliation is achieved in 24 % of patients , and there may be an occasional long-term survivor . 
the medtronic-hall cardiac valve : 7 1 / 2 years ' clinical experience . clinical information on the medtronic-hall valve prosthesis was obtained by reviewing the records of 379 patients , 164 of whom had aortic valve replacement ( avr ) , 163 of whom had mitral valve replacement ( mvr ) , and 52 of whom had double valve replacement over 90 months ( 1 , 225 patient-years ) ( mean follow-up , 42.01 + / - 1.3 months [ + / - standard error ] ) . mean age was 53.8 + / - 12 years . one hundred ninety-three patients ( 50.9 % ) had some type of concomitant operation , such as tricuspid annuloplasty , coronary artery bypass grafting , or resection of ascending aortic aneurysm . ninety-one percent were in new york heart association ( nyha ) functional class iii or iv preoperatively . early mortality and late mortality were 7.7 % ( 29 patients ) and 13.5 % ( 51 patients ) , respectively . the actuarial survival at 7 1 / 2 years was 74.1 + / - 2.7 % for the total group and 69.0 + / - 4.5 % for those having avr , 81.0 + / - 3.2 % for those having mvr , and 67.0 + / - 8.9 % for those having double valve replacement . all patients but 2 were maintained on a regimen of chronic anticoagulation with warfarin sodium . twenty-six thromboembolic episodes occurred ( 2.1 / 100 patient-years ) : 13 after mvr ( 2.3 / 100 patient-years ) , 11 after avr ( 2.1 / 100 patient-years ) , and 2 after double valve replacement ( 1.4 / 100 patient-years ) . four thromboembolic episodes were fatal ; no valve thrombosis occurred . there were no structural failures . of the 350 late survivors , 92 % were in nyha functional classes i and ii . total valve-related complications have been minimal . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
closed-heart technique for wolff-parkinson-white syndrome : further experience and potential limitations . we have described a closed-heart technique for division of atrioventricular ( av ) pathways in wolff-parkinson-white ( wpw ) syndrome . the technique involves dissection and mobilization of the av fat pad with exposure and cryoablation of the av junction at the site of the av pathways . one hundred five consecutive patients with wpw syndrome with left ventricular free wall ( 74 ) , posterior septal ( 23 ) , and right ventricular free wall av pathways ( 11 ) were operated on between july , 1982 , and september , 1985. three patients had multiple accessory pathways , and 9 had associated cardiac disease . electrophysiological testing to determine the presence and site of the av pathway was performed before and after dissection of the fat pad and again after cryoablation of the av junction . all av pathways but 1 were successfully ablated . there were no deaths and no incident of av block . one hundred four patients remain free from arrhythmia in the absence of drugs after a mean follow-up of 18 months ( range , 2 to 42 months ) . four patients required a second operation within the first few weeks for recurrence of av pathway conduction , and 1 patient required a third operation . in 3 of these patients , av pathway conduction persisted after extensive dissection and exposure of the av junction and disappeared only after cryoablation . recurrence of av pathway conduction in the latter patients suggests the presence of a subendocardial pathway protected from cryoablation by the warm , circulating blood pool . the closed-heart technique appears safe and efficacious . a potential limitation may be the presence of subendocardial av pathways , which may require an alternative surgical approach at the site of the pathway to attain uniform primary success . 
atrial thrombi after the fontan operation . this report documents four instances of right atrial thrombi discovered from four days to five years after fontan-type operations . two of the thrombi were removed at reoperation , and two diminished in size during anticoagulation therapy . there were no pulmonary emboli in this small series , but the ominous implications of right atrial thrombi in the post-fontan situation are obvious . for this reason we recommend regular echocardiographic surveillance of all patients who have had the fontan operation and anticoagulation in certain situations . 
five-year survival in treated stage i and ii small cell carcinoma of the lung . ten consecutive patients were treated more than five years ago , for small cell carcinoma of the lung in clinical and surgical stages i or ii . patients underwent initial surgical resection , followed by intensive combination chemotherapy for at least a year , or to limit of tolerance . four patients were classified as stage ii , t2 n1 ; 4 had t2 n0 ; and 2 had t1 n0 . one patient ( t2 n1 ) died of tumor recurrence in the central nervous system 14 months after resection . two died of other causes before five years , one ( t2 n0 ) of a pulmonary embolus on the seventh postoperative day , and the other ( t2 n1 ) of carcinoma of the prostate at 50 months . seven patients ( 70 % ) remained well and disease-free at five years postoperation . two of the 7 died of unrelated causes , one ( t2 n0 ) at 72 months and one ( t2 n1 ) at 108 months . five remain well at 61 to 112 months after resection . although this series is small , no reports have shown comparable survival in a defined group of small cell carcinoma patients treated nonoperatively or by surgical resection alone . 
on antibiotic prophylaxis in cardiac surgery : a risk factor for wound infection . during a 30-month period , median sternotomy wound infections or endocarditis developed during the first 60 days postoperatively following 20 of 1 , 204 ( 1.7 % ) adult cardiac procedures at the university of maryland hospital . fifty percent of the infected patients received perioperative clindamycin prophylaxis . a retrospective study was conducted in which the odds ratio estimate of the relative risk of sternotomy infection or endocarditis for patients receiving clindamycin prophylaxis compared with patients receiving cefamandole was found to be 17.0 ( p less than .001 ) using population controls and 8.25 ( p less than .001 ) using matched controls . seventy-five percent of the organisms causing infections , principally staphylococcus epidermidis , were resistant in vitro to clindamycin . perioperative clindamycin administration was not fully effective in preventing wound infection following cardiac surgery at our hospital , thus providing indirect evidence for the efficacy of prophylaxis with cephalosporin-containing regimens . trials of alternative antibiotics to clindamycin for prophylaxis in penicillin-allergic patients undergoing cardiac surgery are indicated . 
temperature-specific effects of adjuvant diltiazem therapy on myocardial energetics following potassium cardioplegic arrest . adjuvant slow calcium channel blockade theoretically minimizes the calcium influx attendant to potassium-induced cardioplegic arrest , particularly if clinically acceptable levels of cardiac hypothermia are not maintained . the present study assessed the efficacy of diltiazem therapy in ameliorating perturbations of myocardial oxygen consumption that could be attributable to postischemic intracellular calcium accumulation . in 30 canine hearts , myocardial oxygen consumption was determined during incremental isovolumic pressure-volume loading before and 30 minutes after 2 hours of either 20 or 28 degrees c potassium cardioplegic arrest . the intracoronary perfusate in randomized hearts was modified by the addition of diltiazem , 150 micrograms / kg . although systolic performance ( as defined by peak developed pressure as compared with balloon volume curves ) was unchanged after 20 degrees c ischemia , adjuvant diltiazem therapy prevented the 44 + / - 2 % ( p less than .01 ) decrease in peak developed pressure after 28 degrees c arrest . moreover , the 39 % augmentation of postischemic myocardial oxygen consumption at specific peak developed pressure following both 20 and 28 degrees c ischemia was attenuated with diltiazem only after the warmer ischemic interval . this difference was characterized by a larger ( 35 + / - 2 vs . 26 + / - 2 % ; p less than .025 ) decrease in postischemic oxygen extraction despite a comparable hyperemia . these data suggest that adjuvant diltiazem therapy during potassium-induced cardioplegic arrest preserves energy-efficient pump function only after warmer ischemia , thereby limiting the clinical application of this myoprotective regimen . 
long-term efficacy of subendocardial resection in refractory ventricular tachycardia : relationship to site of arrhythmia origin . subendocardial resection is performed in patients with ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) , but its efficacy as related to the site of origin of vt is problematic . we analyzed the efficacy of subendocardial resection in 24 patients with coronary artery disease and vt . all patients underwent preoperative and intraoperative mapping before subendocardial resection . postoperative electrophysiologic studies were performed in the drug-free state 7 to 14 days after subendocardial resection . group 1 ( n = 14 ) had anterior , septal , or lateral sites of origin , and group 2 ( n = 10 ) had inferior or posterior sites of origin . localization of presystolic electrical activity during vt by preoperative and intraoperative mapping was comparable in both groups ( 100 % ) . resectability of the site of origin was higher in group 1. induction of vt during a postoperative electrophysiological study was higher in group 2. perioperative mortality was comparable . postoperative antiarrhythmic therapy was instituted more frequently in group 2. actuarial survival analysis showed improved patient survival at one year after subendocardial resection for both groups . the efficacy of subendocardial resection is related to site of origin of vt : subendocardial resection is less efficacious in vt with inferior or posterior sites of origin because of nonresectability of the arrhythmogenic area . 
pharmacological , hematological , and physiological effects of a new thromboxane synthetase inhibitor ( cgs-13080 ) during cardiopulmonary bypass in dogs . the hematological and pharmacological effects of a new thromboxane synthetase inhibitor , cgs-13080 ( imidazo [ 1 , 5-alpha ] pyridine-5-hexanoic acid ) , were investigated during cardiopulmonary bypass in a blinded , randomized manner in dogs . compared with placebo , cgs-13080 suppressed thrombin-stimulated platelet thromboxane b2 production by 90 % during cardiopulmonary bypass ( p less than .001 ) , an effect that persisted for two hours after stopping the infusion . in the cgs-13080-treated group , plasma 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha levels significantly increased over time ( p less than .03 ) and were somewhat higher when compared with those in the placebo-treated group . this observation suggests that an " endoperoxide shunt " may have occurred . in the control group , an inverse correlation between platelet count and level of thromboxane b2 per platelet following in vitro thrombin stimulation ( r = .5 , p less than .001 ) was apparent , but there was no correlation between these two variables ( r = .18 , p less than .10 ) in the cgs-13080-treated group . no adverse hemodynamic or other effects attributable to cgs-13080 occurred during or immediately following cardiopulmonary bypass . these results suggest that cgs-13080 is an effective inhibitor of thromboxane b2 production during cardiopulmonary bypass in dogs and has no adverse physiological effects . 
intraaortic balloon entrapment : a complication of balloon perforation . a patient in whom perforation of a percutaneously inserted intraaortic balloon resulted in a clot formation inside the balloon is described . the balloon could not be withdrawn percutaneously and was lodged in the femoral artery . it was removed surgically , and the artery was repaired . 
intravascular bronchioloalveolar tumor : a distinctive surgical and pathological entity . a patient with intravascular bronchioloalveolar tumor is described , and the clinical and pathological characteristics of the tumor are discussed . so-called intravascular bronchioloalveolar tumor ( ivbat ) is a relatively new , but well-recognized lung neoplasm . this tumor is a lung neoplasm of distinctive histogenesis newly incorporated into the world health organization histologic typing of lung tumors under the category " miscellaneous tumors , malignant . " the importance of the neoplasm is that it is rarely recognized clinically and frequently misdiagnosed . awareness of this lesion can be enhanced by recognizing its particular clinical presentation , surgical appearance , and unique histopathologic factors . 
oxyphilic granular cell adenoma ( oncocytoma ) of the esophagus . an oncocytoma of the esophagus is presented . the patient 's chief complaint was dysphagia , and barium swallow suggested cricopharyngeus muscle hypertrophy . exploration revealed an intramural mass in the cervical esophagus . enucleation resulted in relief of symptoms . pathological and immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated an oncocytoma of thyroid origin . 
injuries from high-explosive fragments [ letter ] 
reperfusion for evolving myocardial infarction [ letter ] 
blood utilization in open-heart surgery [ letter ] 
risks of noncardiac operation in patients with coronary disease [ letter ] 
growth of the pulmonary arteries following blalock-taussig shunt . the blalock-taussig ( bt ) shunt remains the standard systemic-to-pulmonary artery shunt . we reviewed our experience with the classic bt shunt in terms of mortality , patency , duration of palliation , and growth of the pulmonary artery . records were reviewed in 49 consecutive patients , 25 of whom were less than one month old at the time of operation . they underwent a total of 53 bt shunts . also , the pulmonary artery index ( pai ) , or the sum of the cross-sectional areas of the right and left pulmonary arteries standardized by the body surface area ( bsa ) , was calculated . there were 4 operative deaths ( 7.5 % ) and 1 late death ( 2.0 % ) . early shunt thrombosis ( within 72 hours postoperatively ) occurred in 3 patients . four patients required a second bt shunt , 5 underwent a palliative outflow tract reconstruction , and 5 required a polytetrafluoroethylene graft . twenty-one patients underwent a corrective procedure , and 26 underwent a second cardiac catheterization . of these 26 patients , 24 represent the subgroup used to assess the growth of the pulmonary arteries . the mean duration of palliation was 25.15 months . mean pai increased significantly from 127 + / - 40 mm2 / bsa pre-shunt to 286.1 + / - 144 mm2 / bsa post-shunt ( p less than .004 ) . this series demonstrates that the pulmonary arteries do grow after bt shunt . pulmonary artery growth in patients with tetralogy of fallot was greater than that in patients with single ventricle , and the duration of palliation was acceptable in most patients . calculation of pai may aid in the decision whether to perform a corrective surgical procedure or a second palliative shunt procedure . 
sequential femoro-popliteal-tibial bypass grafting : operative technique and results . sequential femoro-popliteal-tibial saphenous vein grafts were constructed in 25 patients for limb salvage . angiographically , these patients had an isolated popliteal artery segment and at least one distal tibial or peroneal artery patent . in each case , two distal anastomoses were made : one side-to-side to the isolated popliteal segment and the other end-to-side to a tibial or peroneal artery . twenty-three of 25 grafts were successful ; there was an immediate increase in ankle / brachial pressure index and limb salvage . patency rates calculated by life table analysis were 90.2 % at six months , 83.8 % at one year , and a stable interval patency thereafter . for comparison , 65 standard femoro-tibial or peroneal vein grafts performed during the same time interval by the same surgeons were analyzed . each graft had one distal anastomosis to a tibial or peroneal artery . graft patency was 75 % at six months , 72.6 % at one year , 54.5 % at two years , and 49.7 % at three years . the superior patency rate of the sequential grafts was statistically significant ( p less than .03 ) . we conclude that the sequential vein graft technique may result in more complete extremity revascularization and increased graft flow , thereby improving patency rates . in selected patients with an isolated popliteal segment and a patent distal tibial or peroneal artery , the sequential graft technique should be considered . 
intravenous leiomyomatosis of the uterus and pelvis presenting as a cardiac tumor . the case of a young female patient with pelvic intravenous leiomyomatosis extending into the right side of the heart successfully managed with tumor excision under cardiopulmonary bypass in staged procedure is presented . 
fine-needle aspiration biopsy of lung tumors . fine-needle aspiration biopsy ( fnab ) was employed in the management of 66 patients with suspected pulmonary neoplasms . the most frequent indication for fnab in this series occurred in 35 ( 53.0 % ) patients in whom the results of lesser procedures had been normal . coexisting pulmonary disease , bilateral pulmonary lesions , distant metastases , and refusal to undergo surgical procedures accounted for the remaining patients . the results indicated a sensitivity ( true-positive rate ) of 95 % and a specificity ( true-negative rate ) of 100 % . pneumothoraces followed aspiration biopsy in 8 patients ( 13.6 % of the entire group ) , and a thoracostomy tube was required in 7 patients ( 10.6 % of the entire group ) . the use of fnab in patients suspected of harboring lung tumors furnished prompt and accurate results without serious complications . increased experience by thoracic surgeons with this simple diagnostic tool is recommended . 
coronary obstructive lesions : assessing their physiological significance in humans . for more than two decades cardiologists and cardiac surgeons have estimated the physiologic significance of coronary lesions by measuring percent stenosis of the obstructive vascular segment from coronary angiograms . such measurements , when performed without computer-based analysis , are associated with substantial variability between observers , as well as within a single observer . in addition , recent intraoperative measurements of coronary reserve in individual obstructed vessels of patients with multivessel coronary disease performed with a suction doppler probe indicate that , in the intermediate range ( 10 % to 90 % diameter stenosis ) , percent stenosis measurements of coronary lesions by angiography correlates poorly with coronary reserve . these studies suggest that the physiologic significance of coronary obstructions cannot be accurately assessed by visual interpretation of coronary angiograms . more sophisticated and accurate approaches are needed for assessing the physiologic significance of coronary obstructions preoperatively . 
39th annual meeting , society of surgical oncology . washington , dc , may 12-14 , 1986. part ii . 
preoperative radiation therapy for rectal cancer . an effective therapy in need of a clinical trial . sixty patients with locally advanced adenocarcinoma of the rectum have been treated with preoperative high-dose pelvic irradiation in an attempt to improve operability and increase local control . fifty-six patients showed no evidence of distant metastases at surgery and their records have been analyzed with respect to recurrence patterns , survival , and complications . the results have been compared with those of a similar analysis of 106 patients treated with curative surgery alone . there was a statistically significant improvement in local control between groups , with 16 % of patients in the radiotherapy group having a component of local failure compared with 40 % in the surgery group . a dose response was observed , with 67 % local control at 4000 rad ( 4000 cgy ) and 91 % local control at 5000 rad ( 5000 cgy ) . despite the more advanced clinical stage of the irradiated patients , no significant difference in survival was seen between groups , with a five-year survival rate of 52 % in the irradiated patients and 48 % in patients treated by surgery alone . preoperative high-dose radiotherapy was well tolerated , with a 5 % incidence of major complications in both groups . 
improved survival in epidermoid carcinoma of the anus in association with preoperative multidisciplinary therapy . from 1972 to 1983 , we treated 78 patients who had primary epidermoid carcinoma of the anus . forty-four of these patients were treated by protocol , while 34 patients were not treated according to protocol . protocol consisted of fluorouracil ( 750 mg / m for 5 days ) and mitomycin ( 10 to 15 mg / m on day 1 ) , followed sequentially by 3000 rad ( 30 gy ) over three weeks , followed by surgery . there were 20 local excisions and 29 abdominoperineal resections in the protocol group , and 11 local excisions and 14 abdominoperineal resections in the nonprotocol group . in the protocol group , 26 patients ( 59 % ) had no residual cancer in their operative specimens , while only ten ( 29.9 % ) of the nonprotocol patients had no remaining cancer . four ( 11.7 % ) of the 34 nonprotocol patients had pathologically positive inguinal nodes , compared with only three ( 4.5 % ) of 44 protocol patients . thirty-four ( 77 % ) of 44 protocol patients remained free of disease , while ten patients experienced local or pelvic recurrence . in contrast , only 17 ( 50 % ) of 34 patients in the nonprotocol group remained free of disease . of 17 recurrences , five were at distant sites . the status at this writing of all patients in the protocol group was 32 ( 75 % ) , with no evidence of disease , four alive with disease , and eight dead of or with disease . of the untreated patients , only 11 ( 32 % ) remained without evidence of disease , two were alive with disease , and 19 were dead of or with disease . smaller carcinoma size ( less than 5 cm , 27 of 32 had no evidence of disease ) , younger age , female gender , and deep infiltration also predicted a statistically significant survival advantage after protocol treatment . controlled , prospective , multi-institutional trials should stratify for these factors when comparing new treatment modalities . 
intraoperative probe-directed immunodetection using a monoclonal antibody . to assess monoclonal antibody ( mab ) 17-1a and its f ( ab ' ) 2 fragment in intraoperative radioimmunodetection and to evaluate further the clinical usefulness of a hand-held gamma-detecting probe ( gdp ) , we injected radiolabeled monoclonal antibody 17-1a three to six days preoperatively or its f ( ab ' ) 2 fragment two to three days preoperatively into 18 patients with colorectal cancer . intraoperative gdp counts with tumor-tissue ratios of 1.5 : 1 or greater were obtained from 15 ( 75 % ) of 20 tumor sites , with ratios averaging 2.3 : 1 for fragments and 3.4 : 1 for whole antibody . the gdp counts contributed to intraoperative decision making in three patients , either by localization of tumor not identified by inspection or palpation or by mapping margins of resection with histologic confirmation of a local / regional recurrence . these preliminary data demonstrate that probe-directed , intraoperative radioimmunodetection can assist the surgeon in detecting subclinical tumor deposits and thus better evaluate the extent of primary or recurrent colorectal cancers intraoperatively . 
extent of axillary dissection preceding irradiation for carcinoma of the breast . " limited " surgery and irradiation have become more popular therapeutic options for women with stage i and stage ii breast cancer , and surgical attention to the axilla is part of this approach . to understand the limitations of whatever axillary procedure is recommended , we undertook a retrospective analysis of the records of 277 women who had undergone radical or modified radical mastectomy . of this group , 127 had metastases to at least one axillary or interpectoral lymph node . skip metastases occurred in 13 % of women with positive nodes ; two women ( 1.6 % ) had metastases only to level iii nodes , and two women had metastases only to interpectoral nodes . the extremely uncommon occurrence of metastases to level iii alone or to interpectoral nodes alone , but the greater likelihood of skip metastases to level ii , argues for both level i and level ii axillary dissection preceding irradiation for patients with invasive carcinomas of the breast . 
neodymium-yag laser . a new palliative tool in the treatment of colorectal cancer . twenty-four patients with colorectal carcinoma and one patient with a recurrent , transitional-cell , vesical tumor invading the rectum but not amenable to surgical resection underwent neodymium-yag laser therapy . there were 16 men and nine women with an average age of 75.6 years ( range , 35 to 93 years ) . there were 14 , 6 , 1 , 1 , and 3 tumors found in the rectum , rectosigmoid colon , transverse colon , descending colon , and ascending colon , respectively . symptoms consisted of bleeding or partial obstruction . twelve patients were high-risk surgical candidates , 11 patients had widespread disease , and two patients had another primary tumor not controlled by a previous surgical procedure . the tumor was eradicated in two patients . there were two complications , namely , a perforation and a rectovaginal fistula . thirteen patients died from their disease . the remaining patients have been kept free from obstruction and bleeding . 
suppressor cell activities in autologous human tumor systems . suppression of tumor immunity . autologous t-cell clones or lines , established from peripheral blood lymphocytes ( pbls ) and lymphocytes from tumor-affected lymph nodes , were used to examine the immunoregulatory circuitry that might influence cell-mediated cytotoxic responses against human cancers . in a chromium 51-release microcytotoxicity assay , pbls , when activated in vitro against autologous tumor cells in interleukin-2 , generated marked cytotoxicity against the autologous targets . in four solid-tumor systems , such generation of cytotoxicity in the pbls could be suppressed by t-cell lines or clones derived from lymphocytes from tumor-affected lymph nodes ( lnls ) . the suppressions , mediated by both t8+ suppressor and t4+ suppressor-inducer cells , were restricted against only the autologous tumors in two systems . in the other cases , the suppressions were nonspecific . clarification of the receptors through which these types of regulation are mediated might provide a new approach for immunotherapeutic manipulations in cancer . 
thickness as prognostic aid in upper aerodigestive tract cancer . a retrospective review of records and microscopic slides was carried out on 151 patients , encompassing nine specific upper aerodigestive tract cancer sites , correlating depth of invasion with node metastases and outcome . in this preliminary descriptive study , thickness was found to be more closely related to node metastasis and to survival than was surface diameter in middle-stage tumors , particularly in tongue , floor of the mouth , buccal mucosa , gum , and soft palate sites . thickness , depth of penetration , and bone involvement appear to represent the degree of general tumor aggressiveness better than does surface extent . a substitution of thickness measurement for surface diameter ( t ) in the present tnm staging system is suggested . 
chemoprevention of colorectal neoplasms . ascorbic acid and beta-carotene . the organospecific , 1 , 2-dimethylhydrazine-induced rat tumor model was used to test tumor formation in groups of animals receiving regular chow , powdered chow with 7 % / wt ascorbic acid supplement , pelleted chow with 1 % / wt beta-carotene supplement , and pelleted chow with placebo beadlets . following a 16-week induction period , animals were killed and tumor formation was recorded . tumor formation in the ascorbic acid supplement group was found to be significantly less than the control group . the beta-carotene group showed no difference in tumor formation compared with the placebo-beadlet control group . tumor incidence was generally the same between the two control groups , and the ascorbic acid group had significantly fewer tumors than the beta-carotene group . in sum , ascorbic acid supplements in high doses significantly decreased tumor formation , whereas beta-carotene supplements in moderately high doses had no effect on tumor formation in this model . 
localized , operable soft tissue sarcoma of the lower extremity . recent developments in adjuvant treatment of soft tissue sarcomas of the extremities have altered the surgical approach to this disease . to assess the effects of changing management on local recurrence rates and to examine factors governing local failure , we reviewed the records of 315 adults with operable , nonmetastatic soft tissue sarcoma of the lower extremity who were treated at one institution over a ten-year period . the median follow-up was 8.2 years . one third of our patients presented with locally recurrent tumors after initial treatment elsewhere . sixty-six percent of the lesions were above the knee , and 60 % were high grade . two thirds of the patients underwent limb-sparing surgery ( lss ) , which in the latter half of the study period outnumbered amputations by four to one . local recurrence was directly related to the adequacy of the surgical margins . adjuvant radiotherapy and chemotherapy did not significantly decrease local recurrence in patients who underwent lss , although favorable trends were observed . a significantly increased risk of local failure was associated with age greater than 53 years , presentation with local recurrence , high tumor grade , deep location , positive nodes , and less than adequate surgical margins . local failure also varied significantly with histologic type and was highest in patients with embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma and neurofibrosarcoma . improved local control , particularly in patients with high-grade tumors , was observed in the latter half of the study period despite the increased use of lss . when the data were subjected to multivariate analysis , the following variables emerged as independent predictors of local failure : age greater than 53 years , presentation with local recurrence , high grade , less than adequate margins , embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma , and neurofibrosarcoma . the key to local control of sarcomas of the extremities is resection of the tumor with adequate margins . the role of adjuvant treatment , particularly following lss , is still being evaluated . the risk factor profile should be considered when selecting a treatment program for patients with lower extremity sarcomas . 
tumor dna content in primary and metastatic colorectal carcinoma . we performed this study to determine if tumor dna content was an independent prognostic indicator in patients with primary tumors or hepatic metastases from colorectal cancer . we analyzed tumor dna content by flow cytometry from paraffin-embedded specimens in 133 patients . in the 77 patients with primary colorectal cancer who had had " curative " resection , dna content of the tumor was an independent prognostic indicator in predicting both relapse-free and overall survival . logistics regression analysis demonstrated that aneuploidy , ie , tumors that exhibited a population of cells with an " abnormal " dna content , was the single most important variable in predicting both recurrence and death from disease , even more important than stage . however , in 56 patients with hepatic metastases from colorectal cancer , the dna content of the liver metastases bore no relationship to the patients ' survival or their response to therapy . these data suggest that tumor dna content is an important prognostic indicator in patients with primary colorectal carcinoma but does not reflect the natural history of patients with liver metastases . 
the use of the implantable chemoinfusion pump in the treatment of hepatic metastases of colorectal cancer . fifty-five chemoinfusion devices have been implanted in patients with metastasis of colorectal cancer confined to the liver . there were no episodes of pump malfunction or of catheter clotting . side effects included gastric ulcers in 13 patients and duodenal ulcers in four patients , including one episode of total gastric obstruction . chemical hepatitis occurred in 13 patients , sclerosing cholangiolitis in one patient , and duodenal dismotility requiring gastroenterostomy in one patient . the response criterion was taken as reduction by at least 50 % of the pretreatment carcinoembryonic antigen level ; consequently , the response rate was 88 % . median survival of all patients was 19.2 months from the time of diagnosis of hepatic metastases to death , as determined by the kaplan-meier method . median survival from the time of pump implantation to death was 10.1 months . 
prospective study of cardiomyopathy induced by adjuvant doxorubicin therapy in patients with soft-tissue sarcomas . since a combination of surgery and adjuvant high-dose doxorubicin therapy can prolong survival in patients with extremity sarcomas , but at the expense of significant cardiomyopathic changes , we prospectively studied the differences in cardiotoxicity in 118 patients with sarcomas treated with high- vs low-dose doxorubicin therapy following surgery . cardiac function , as assessed by left ventricular ejection fraction ( ef ) , was determined by standard radionuclide angiography during rest and exercise . no patients in this study developed congestive heart failure . while both regimens produced net decreases in ef during rest and exercise , the high-dose doxorubicin regimen resulted in significantly greater declines in ef than the low-dose protocol . of patients with normal baseline values , a greater percentage of patients receiving the high-dose regimen developed an abnormal ef than did those receiving the low-dose regimen , even after separating younger from older individuals . thus , treatment-induced cardiomyopathy appears to be a significant clinical problem after both high- and low-dose doxorubicin therapy . the use of the low-dose regimen decreases the magnitude of the cardiomyopathic changes . 
the treated histories of patients with ta grade 1 transitional-cell carcinoma of the bladder . one hundred sixty patients with grade 1 transitional-cell carcinoma of the bladder were evaluated and treated at the massachusetts general hospital , boston . the mean follow-up period was 57 months . there were 92 new patients and 68 patients who had a history of transitional-cell carcinoma . fifty-three patients ( 33 % ) never had another transitional-cell carcinoma . sixty-eight ( 43 % ) of the remaining 107 patients had recurrent ta grade 1 transitional-cell carcinoma . in 32 patients ( 20 % ) disease progressed in grade , in seven patients ( 4 % ) invasive transitional-cell carcinoma developed , five patients underwent cystectomy , and one patient died of transitional-cell carcinoma . high-risk factors included positive results of cytologic studies after therapy and three or more recurrences . multiple therapies were used , but it is impossible to determine if anything other than transurethral resection altered the course in these patients . the data suggest that patients with low-risk factors and ta grade 1 tumors might be followed up with a quarterly cytologic examination and cystoscopy once or twice a year , unless a change in symptoms occurs . 
intraoperative corneal moistening : a first-year resident 's view of surgery [ letter ] 
is the collaborative ocular melanoma study worthwhile ? [ letter ] 
do i take the eye out or leave it in ? [ letter ] 
inaccuracy in preparation of intravitreal solutions [ letter ] 
effects of triamcinolone injection [ letter ] 
granuloma formation as a complication of the posterior fixation suture operation . 
familial prepapillary vascular loops . 
palpation of the superficial temporal artery in normal persons . 
tissue culture method sheds light on retinitis pigmentosa . 
are there any retinal contraindications to cataract extraction and posterior chamber lens implants ? [ editorial ] 
trends in intraocular lens implantation in the united states . 
superior oblique paralysis . a review of 270 cases . in 270 patients with superior oblique paralyses treated between 1973 and 1984 , congenital and traumatic causes were most frequent , and one fourth of all traumatic cases had bilateral involvement . among the diagnostic features distinguishing bilateral from unilateral paralysis were a right hypertropia in left gaze and left hypertropia in right gaze , and a positive bielschowsky test on tilting the head toward either shoulder . however , absence of either sign did not exclude bilateral paralysis . large excyclotropia and a v-pattern esotropia are suggestive of but not diagnostic for bilateral paralysis . complaints about cyclotropia are limited to acquired paralysis . cyclotropia in the normal eye , head tilt toward the involved side , or absence of any abnormal head posture limits the diagnostic value of these associated signs . overshoot of the contralateral superior oblique occurred in 19 % of the patients and is thought to be caused by contracture of the ipsilateral superior rectus muscle . surgical treatment in 112 patients resulted in an 85 % cure rate with an average of 1.45 operations per patient . 
persisting accommodative esotropia . this report examines the persistence of many cases of accommodative esotropia well beyond the expected time of resolution ( age 10 to 12 years ) and the potential usefulness of any associated clinical features to predict timely or delayed disappearance . in a series of 202 patients , there was no discrete age of improvement and more than half persisted after age 10 years . the results were similar for both high and normal accommodative convergence / accommodation ratio cases . initial hyperopia did not predict persistence ; subsequent increases prior to age 7 years , and decreases thereafter , were different statistically but were clinically similar . moreover , the occurrence of inferior oblique overaction and of dissociated vertical deviation , as well as a family history of strabismus , did not predict persistence or delayed improvement . 
variability of strabismus surgery for acquired esotropia . we developed a mathematical model to predict the probable success rate of the first surgery to correct acquired esotropia with normal accommodative convergence-accommodation ratio in children . a computer-averaged dose-response curve of the effect of 68 bilateral medial rectus recessions was combined with various assumptions regarding likely errors in surgical performance and likely errors in measurement of the preoperative deviation . fifteen different sets of reasonable assumptions were tested , giving a range of theoretical success rates from 72 % to 96 % . the results of this study clearly indicate that a certain proportion of failures is to be expected when this or other forms of strabismus are treated surgically by a fully competent ophthalmic surgeon performing as accurately as is practically possible . 
grating acuity development after early surgery for congenital unilateral cataract . longitudinal measures of grating acuity were obtained from 16 children after early surgery , optical correction , and occlusion therapy for congenital unilateral cataract . compliance with contact lens wear and occlusion therapy was good in this population . monocular grating acuities were obtained by preferential looking during months 1 through 15 and by an operant procedure during months 16 through 53. grating acuities of normal eyes did not differ from those obtained in an age-matched normal population and showed no evidence of occlusion amblyopia . during the first year of life , grating acuities of aphakic eyes were typically within the normal range , but lagged behind normal development during years 2 through 4. these results suggest that early surgery is associated with favorable long-term visual results but does not , even with good compliance , completely eliminate deprivation amblyopia . 
demonstration of papillomavirus capsid antigen in human conjunctival neoplasia . to investigate the association of human papillomavirus with conjunctival neoplasia , we identified 50 resected papillomas from 47 patients . papillomas were composed of papillary or , less commonly , flat proliferations of predominantly nonkeratinizing squamous epithelium with admixed goblet cells . koilocytosis was focally present in 30 tumors ( 60 % ) . atypia that ranged from mild to severe was present in ten lesions ( 20 % ) . in addition , we examined specimens of conjunctival dysplasia or carcinoma from 61 patients . the lesions were predominantly flat proliferations of atypical epithelial cells . twenty biopsies performed for suspected sarcoidosis were used as controls . papillomavirus capsid antigen was demonstrated using an immunoperoxidase technique in nuclei of mature superficial epithelial cells of 23 papillomas ( 46 % ) and five dysplasias or carcinomas ( 8.2 % ) but not in the control biopsy specimens . these results suggest that papillomavirus may play a role in the etiology of conjunctival papilloma , dysplasia , and carcinoma . 
changes in diabetic retinopathy during pregnancy . correlations with regulation of hyperglycemia . thirty-eight pregnancies in 35 women with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus were monitored for changes in diabetic retinopathy during the institution of " tight " metabolic control by intensive medical management . eye findings were scored on paired sets of retinal photographs obtained when enrolled in this study and shortly after delivery . these findings were then correlated with measurements of diabetic regulation . intensive therapy for the diabetes mellitus resulted in improved glucose control by the time of delivery . however , retinal abnormalities worsened as gestation proceeded in 55 % of the pregnancies . deterioration of background retinopathy correlated significantly with the levels of plasma glucose at entry and with the magnitude of improvement in glycemia achieved during the first six to 14 weeks after entry ( ie , " early changes " ) and by the final week before delivery ( ie , " overall changes " ) . our findings indicate that the changing retinopathy during pregnancy cannot be interpreted without assessment of concurrent changes in the regulation of maternal diabetes and that the abrupt institution of improved diabetic control during pregnancy may be one factor in the deterioration of background retinopathy sometimes seen during pregnancy . 
apocrine hidrocystomas of the lids , hypodontia , palmar-plantar hyperkeratosis , and onychodystrophy . a new variant of ectodermal dysplasia . a fourth case of a newly recognized variant of ectodermal dysplasia is reported . this syndrome is characterized by bilateral apocrine hidrocystomas of the eyelid margins , hypodontia , palmar-plantar hyperkeratosis , and onychodystrophy . to our knowledge , this syndrome , with its striking ocular manifestations , has not been previously documented in the ophthalmic literature . 
genital tract papillomavirus type 6 in recurrent conjunctival papilloma . an infant boy born of a mother who had condylomata ( genital warts ) during pregnancy and at delivery developed recurrent conjunctival papillomas and papillomas on the soft palate and the false vocal cords . a conjunctival lesion was first noticed by the mother when the infant was 4 months old and was excised and histologically diagnosed as a papilloma when he was 11 months old . the dna sequences of genital tract human papillomavirus type 6 ( hpv-6 ) were identified in conjunctival papilloma tissue by southern transfer hybridization of tissue dna extracted from a lesion excised at 29 months of age as well as by in situ hybridization of paraffin sections of the diagnostic biopsy specimen obtained at 11 months of age . it is probable that the infant acquired conjunctival infection from the mother , very likely during passage through the infected birth canal . 
a comparison of the efficacy and toxicity of and intraocular pressure response to viscous solutions in the anterior chamber . an intraocular-lens abrasion test , vital dye staining , and scanning electron microscopy were used for an in vitro comparison of endothelial protection offered by four viscous solutions of 1 % sodium hyaluronate ( healon ) , 3 % sodium hyaluronate ( amvisc ) , 4 % chondroitin sulfate ( viscoat ) , and 2 % methylcellulose . wide-field specular microscopy with analysis of endothelial cell density and morphologic evaluation , pachymetry , and intraocular pressure measurements were also used to study the toxicity of the viscous solutions in an in vivo cat model with and without anterior chamber washout . all four solutions provided complete endothelial protection from mechanical trauma . endothelial cell density and morphologic nature were unaffected during the in vivo toxicity study . a mild increase in intraocular inflammation occurred at one and two days after intraocular injection with all four viscous solutions . intraocular pressure elevations peaked within four hours after instillation of the viscous solutions and were significantly reduced by anterior chamber washout . 
excimer laser ablation of the lens . ablation of the bovine crystalline lens was studied using radiation from an excimer laser at four ultraviolet wave lengths as follows : 193 nm ( argon fluoride ) , 248 nm ( krypton fluoride ) , 308 nm ( xenon chloride ) , and 351 nm ( xenon fluoride ) . the ablation process was quantitated by measuring mass ablated with an electronic balance , and characterized by examining ablation craters with scanning electron microscopy . the highest ablation rate was observed at 248 nm with lower rates at 193 and 308 nm . no ablation was observed at 351 nm . scanning electron microscopy revealed the smoothest craters at 193 nm while at 248 nm there was vacuolization in the crater walls and greater disruption of surrounding tissue . the craters made at 308 nm did not have as smooth a contour as the 193-nm lesions . the spectral absorbance of the bovine lens was calculated at the wavelengths used for ablation and correlated with ablation rates and thresholds . high peak-power , pulsed ultraviolet laser radiation may have a role in surgical removal of the lens . 
wound healing after filtering surgery in owl monkeys . we performed posterior lip sclerectomies in 29 owl monkey eyes to determine the natural history of wound healing after filtering surgery without adjunctive antimetabolite therapy . we noted three phases of wound healing during clinical and histologic examination : early healing ( days 2 to 6 ) , intermediate healing ( days 7 to 9 ) , and late healing ( days 10 to 14 ) . in the early healing phase , all limbal fistulas except one remained open gonioscopically , but by day 6 , fibroblasts had proliferated along the walls of the opening . proliferation and migration of fibroblasts continued during the intermediate healing phase to completely occlude four and to partially occlude two of the ten fistulas in the eyes studied during this time . in the late healing phase , the limbal fistula was completely closed by granulation tissue in four of five eyes and was slitlike open in one eye . in this model of filtering surgery , wound healing at the sclerectomy site with obliteration of the limbal opening by proliferating fibroblasts occurred within the first 14 postoperative days . we believe that the short-term effects of newer treatments designed to alter wound healing after filtering surgery may be assessed in this model , which is characterized by predictable and prompt wound healing . 
compound nevus of the conjunctiva . 
a year in a general ophthalmic outpatient department in england . 
otology--its time has come ! 
otosclerosis surgery in a resident training program . controversy exists regarding the appropriateness of offering all residents training in stapes surgery due to dwindling case loads in residency programs nationally . a recent study indicated poorer results for stapes surgery performed by residents than results obtained by practicing otologists . one hundred consecutive stapedectomies performed by residents over a three-year period at our institution were reviewed retrospectively , with the objective of determining whether these results should be generalized . 
hearing loss in an institutionalized mentally retarded population . identification by auditory brainstem response . we report the results of auditory brainstem response testing of 122 profoundly retarded institutionalized children , a segment of the retarded population heretofore generally regarded as untestable by behavioral audiometry . major findings include : 32 % of the study population showed , by auditory brainstem response , hearing loss exceeding 20 decibels of hearing level in one or both ears ( 12 % showed conductive loss and 20 % sensorineural loss ) ; of the 15.6 % with evidence of bilateral sensorineural loss , 7.37 % had losses in the 30- to 50-db range , and 8.19 % had losses of 60 db or greater ; and evidence of abnormal brain-stem function was found in 11 % . results of otologic examinations and audiologic habilitative follow-up in selected children are also reported . 
cochlear blood flow . the effect of noise at 60 minutes ' exposure . the effect of 60 minutes of exposure to high-frequency ( 10- to 40-khz ) , high-intensity ( 115-db ) noise on the cochlear blood flow ( cobf ) was investigated in adult gerbils . the cobf was measured with a newly improved microsphere method . the number of microspheres in cochlear tissue that had been dissected by the surface preparation technique was assessed by direct counting . our experiments have indicated that the cobf is elevated even after 60 minutes of noise exposure . this was true particularly in the areas where these frequencies stimulate the cochlea . the noise also increased cobf in the opposite ear in areas not corresponding to the stimulation frequencies ( second and third turn ) . this phenomenon is under further investigation . 
functional evaluation of pharyngoesophageal reconstructive techniques . this work represents a 12-year experience from the eastern virginia medical school , norfolk , with 115 patients who had pharyngoesophageal resections for cancer treatment . each patient received reconstruction by one of four major techniques : deltopectoral flaps ( n = 43 ) , pectoralis myocutaneous flaps ( n = 36 ) , gastric pull-ups ( n = 19 ) , and free jejunal autografts ( n = 17 ) . an analysis of the procedures with emphasis on the functional results indicates that each technique has advantages in specific circumstances . guidelines for the application of these techniques are presented . 
the reporting of statistical techniques in otolaryngology journals . the domain of this study is the reporting of statistical analyses in the otolaryngology literature during 1983 and 1984. fewer than ten basic statistical procedures accounted for more than 90 % of the statistical techniques reported . implications for authors , journals , and educators are discussed . we offer suggestions for imparting statistical skills that may be helpful in curriculum design , residency training , and continuing medical education planning . 
oral sialocysts . epithelial-lined sialocysts of the minor oral salivary glands are rare when compared with the common mucous retention phenomenon or mucocele . one hundred twenty cases are reported and segregated into three distinct subtypes on the basis of clinicopathologic features . the true mucous retention cyst was most prevalent , occurring in patients older than 20 years , with no sex predilection . the floor of the mouth was the most common site . reactive oncocytoid cysts arose in elderly patients and were more common among women . the buccal mucosa-mandibular vestibule was the favored site . mucopapillary cysts are rare and may be confused histologically with low-grade mucoepidermoid tumors . 
a new technique to maintain closed-suction drainage catheter function . closed-suction catheter drains offer many advantages over previously used systems in head and neck surgery . occlusion of drains with either tissue fragments of thrombus , however , is a relatively common problem . several methods have been proposed to restore flow to obstructed drains . these methods are reviewed and a new method is described that is efficacious , avoids wound contamination , and is relatively inexpensive . 
partial vs total esophagectomy for advanced carcinoma of the hypopharynx . cancer of the hypopharynx is an aggressive disease with a poor prognosis irrespective of the therapeutic regimen instituted . controversy centers around the extent of surgery required to adequately ablate the advanced cancers , particularly related to the role of esophagectomy . a literature review and analysis of 43 cases of advanced hypopharyngeal cancer treated with total laryngopharyngectomy and partial esophagectomy support the argument that in carefully selected situations , a partial esophagectomy is oncologically an adequate operation . 
the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap . use in surgery of the lower neck and superior mediastinum . surgery of the lower neck and superior mediastinum is most frequently performed for parastomal recurrence of laryngeal carcinoma . it has been associated with a high incidence of complications , often leading to fatal innominate artery rupture . the use of the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap has permitted wide en bloc resections of the superior mediastinum in ten patients without a major complication . several technical innovations add versatility to the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap , including tailor fitting each skin paddle and incorporating the pectoralis minor into the muscular pedicle . superior mediastinal resection should be performed in conjunction with laryngectomy and cervical lymph node dissection in patients who are at high risk for parastomal recurrence . we also recommend that patients with parastomal recurrence undergo this procedure for salvage . 
magnetic resonance imaging of the salivary glands . a comparison with computed tomographic scanning . a variety of diagnostic imaging techniques are currently available for the investigation of parotid gland disorders . at this time , for the investigation of mass lesions , computed tomography is the most valuable . over the past several years , we have been comparing magnetic resonance imaging with computed tomographic scanning of our parotid gland lesions to evaluate the relative merits of both systems . this current study illustrates our current experience and shows the relative strengths and weaknesses of both methods . 
visual loss due to orbital fracture . the role of early reduction . serious injury to the optic nerve is an uncommon , usually permanent , complication of orbital fractures . occasionally it is due to reversible changes , such as edema , contusion , or compression of the optic nerve . the early management of visual loss due to orbital fracture is controversial . some authors advocate emergency optic nerve decompression ; others recommend steroid therapy alone . we present a case of nearly complete unilateral loss of vision after a lateral orbital fracture with compression of the optic nerve by bony fragments . computed tomographic scanning of the orbit helped us to pinpoint the cause of visual compromise and also served as a guide in planning surgery . large dosages of steroids , combined with early reduction of the fracture , resulted in substantial recovery of vision . this case illustrates the importance of precisely determining the nature of the injury and the cause of visual compromise . a protocol for management of these injuries is presented . 
pathologic quiz case 2. intramuscular capillary hemangioma . 
pathologic quiz case 1. molluscum contagiosum . 
early treatment of unstable angina [ editorial ] 
short and long term predictive value of admission wall motion score in acute myocardial infarction . a cross sectional echocardiographic study of 345 patients . a score of left ventricular segmental wall motion was used as a convenient rapid way to assess overall left ventricular function in acute myocardial infarction . its success in risk stratification at admission was assessed by a blind review of cross sectional echocardiographic tape recordings from multiple acoustic windows . sixty nine ( 20 % ) of the 345 patients died during hospital stay or within a one year follow up . the mean ( sd ) wall motion score in those who died was significantly higher than in those who survived ( 16.2 ( 5.9 ) vs 5.7 ( 3.9 ) ) . there were no differences between the group that died in hospital within three months of discharge and the group that died between three months and one year after discharge . among the 31 patients who died in hospital , however , wall motion score was highest in 15 patients dying of cardiogenic shock ( 19.2 ( 4.2 ) ) . in 16 patients with lethal ruptures it was 13.5 ( 6.1 ) . the nine patients with free wall ruptures had higher wall motion scores than those with ventricular septal rupture or papillary muscle rupture ( 15.7 ( 6.9 ) vs 8.5 ( 5.3 ) ) . eight ( 3.3 % ) of 245 patients with a score less than 10 died , compared with 61 ( 61 % ) of 100 scoring greater than or equal to 10. the sensitivity of a score of greater than or equal to 10 in predicting death within one year was 88 % , the specificity was 86 % , the positive predictive value was 61 % , and the negative predictive value was 97 % . 
hormonal , global , and regional haemodynamic responses to a vascular antagonist of vasopressin in patients with congestive heart failure with and without hyponatraemia . the pathophysiological role of an increase in circulating vasopressin in sustaining global and regional vasoconstriction in patients with congestive heart failure has not been established , particularly in patients with hyponatraemia . to assess this further , 20 patients with congestive heart failure refractory to digoxin and diuretics were studied before and 60 minutes after the intravenous injection ( 5 micrograms / kg ) of the vascular antagonist of vasopressin [ 1 ( beta-mercapto-beta , beta-cyclopentamethylene-propionic acid ) , 2- ( 0-methyl ) tyrosine ] arginine vasopressin . ten patients were hyponatraemic ( plasma sodium less than 135 mmol / l ) and 10 were normonatraemic . in both groups of patients the vascular vasopressin antagonist did not alter systemic or pulmonary artery pressures , right atrial pressure , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure , cardiac index , or vascular resistances . furthermore , there was no change in skin and hepatic blood flow in either group after the injection of the vascular antagonist . only one patient in the hyponatraemic group showed considerable haemodynamic improvement . he had severe congestive heart failure and a high concentration of plasma vasopressin ( 51 pmol / l ) . plasma renin activity , vasopressin , or catecholamine concentrations were not significantly changed in response to the administration of the vasopressin antagonist in either the hyponatraemic or the normonatraemic groups . patients with hyponatraemia , however , had higher baseline plasma catecholamine concentrations , heart rate , pulmonary pressure and resistance , and lower hepatic blood flow than patients without hyponatraemia . plasma vasopressin and plasma renin activity were slightly , though not significantly , higher in the hyponatraemic group . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
comparability of m mode echocardiographic long axis and short axis left ventricular function derivatives . m mode echocardiographic anteroposterior indexes of left ventricular function derived from long and short axis parasternal planes were compared in one hundred cases . in all the disease groups studied the paired values were within acceptable statistical limits of comparability and interchangeability ; that is they were within two standard deviations of the mean difference in both directions . values from either plane can usually be considered as being representative of the expected values for the individual . 
magnetic resonance assessment of aortic and mitral regurgitation . magnetic resonance imaging provides an accurate method for the measurement of left and right ventricular volume . the ratio of left ventricular stroke volume to right ventricular stroke volume was calculated from contiguous transverse magnetic resonance images and was used to measure the severity of regurgitation in 18 patients with aortic regurgitation and 10 with mitral regurgitation . cardiac anatomy was well demonstrated , allowing an assessment of relative chamber volumes and associated abnormalities , although valve abnormality was not well seen . there was a weak correlation between magnetic resonance measurements of left ventricular end diastolic volume and stroke volume ratio . the stroke volume ratio differed significantly in four groups with increasing angiographic severity of regurgitation , and all but the group with trivial regurgitation differed significantly from normal . there was good correlation between magnetic resonance and radionuclide measurements of left ventricular ejection fraction and stroke volume ratio , although the stroke volume ratio was consistently overestimated by radionuclide ventriculography . correlation was less good for the right ventricular ejection fraction , which was underestimated by radionuclide ventriculography . it is concluded that magnetic resonance imaging provides valuable information in patients with valvar regurgitation , and serves as a suitable standard by which to judge conventional techniques . 
optimum pacing mode for patients with angina pectoris . a within patient double blind prospective study of symptoms and exercise tolerance was designed to determine the preferred pacing mode in 10 patients with programmable dual chamber pacemakers who also had angina pectoris . patients were randomly allocated to one month in each of the following modes : ventricular pacing at 70 beats / min ( vvi ) or atrioventricular synchronous upper rate 150 beats / min ( ddd 150 ) or 100 beats / min ( ddd 100 ) . medications were unchanged throughout the study ; none was taking beta blockers . at the end of each month patients underwent an exercise test . during each month patients recorded symptoms and their preferred pacing mode . ddd 100 was the preferred mode ( seven patients ) . there was significantly less chest pain with this mode than with either of the other modes . there were significantly more episodes of dizziness in vvi , and two patients who developed pacemaker syndrome were unable to complete the pacing period . three patients developed angina during exercise testing in ddd 150. atrial synchronous ventricular pacing is better than ventricular pacing for the control of symptoms in patients with angina pectoris provided that the upper atrial tracking rate is limited . 
transluminal angioplasty of a stenosis of an internal mammary artery graft . stricture of an internal mammary artery graft was successfully dilated by percutaneous angioplasty in a young man who had recurrent angina soon after bypass surgery . 
constrictive pericarditis after myocardial infarction . constrictive pericarditis developed in a 55 year old man two years after transmural myocardial infarction complicated by severe acute pericarditis . pericardiectomy was successful . although this very rare late complication of myocardial infarction has been reported as a sequela of frank anticoagulant induced haemopericardium , in this case there was no clinical evidence of such an association . 
pathogenesis of heart block in a fatal case of dermatomyositis . approximately 70 % of patients with dermatomyositis have evidence of cardiac damage ; in one third of cases this affects principally or solely the conduction tissue . in infants similar histological lesions have been associated with a maternal autoantibody , anti-ro , that crosses the placenta and produces congenital heart block . anti-ro antibody was detected in a fatal case of dermatomyositis with lesions of the conduction system . 
crescentic glomerulonephritis : a possible complication of streptokinase treatment for myocardial infarction . twenty days after a streptokinase infusion given for myocardial infarction , a patient developed a group g streptococcal throat infection . thirteen days later he presented with a serum sickness type illness and progressive renal failure . renal biopsy showed crescentic glomerulonephritis . 
conjoined hearts . thoracopagus twins were delivered at 37 weeks ' gestation by caesarean section . respiratory distress was present and mechanical ventilation was needed ; 36 hours after delivery severe lactic acidosis developed and the twins died . the pericardial sac was common and the hearts were conjoined as a single structure with ventricular fusion . 
reversible renal failure after combined treatment with enalapril and frusemide in a patient with congestive heart failure [ letter ] 
nitrous oxide and the fetus . a review and the results of a retrospective study of 175 cases of anaesthesia for insertion of shirodkar suture . the outcome of 175 pregnancies during which nitrous oxide was administered has been evaluated . all anaesthetics were of short duration ( 20-30 min ) and 97 % were administered during the second trimester . no adverse effects were identified . the mechanism of potential toxicity and the implications of the use of nitrous oxide during the first and second trimesters of pregnancy are discussed . 
effect of halothane on cardiovascular and plasma catecholamine responses to tracheal intubation . the catecholamine and cardiovascular responses to intubation were investigated during halothane anaesthesia . thirty patients were allocated randomly to two groups . following induction of anaesthesia and muscle relaxation , group 1 was ventilated with 70 % nitrous oxide in oxygen before intubation ; group 2 received 1 % halothane in addition . after intubation , both groups received 0.5 % halothane . arterial pressure and heart rate , and plasma noradrenaline and adrenaline concentrations were measured throughout the induction sequence . in group 1 intubation was associated with increases ( from pre-induction values ) in systolic arterial pressure of 13 % and diastolic arterial pressure of 35 % , although the plasma concentrations of noradrenaline did not alter significantly . in group 2 , although there was a pressor response to intubation , no overall change in systolic arterial pressure and only a 13 % increase in diastolic arterial pressure occurred when compared with pre-induction values . this response was associated with a 78 % increase in the noradrenaline concentration ; the adrenaline concentration did not alter significantly . 
cricoid pressure with or without the " cricoid yoke " . the performance of cricoid pressure was studied in three groups of medical personnel likely to be involved in its application using the cricoid yoke and a test rig . the instrument enabled individuals who had no previous experience in the application of cricoid pressure to achieve results as good as those obtained by experienced anaesthetic staff . furthermore , the instrument improved the consistency of the applied force in all groups , particularly if cricoid pressure was required for sustained periods of 30 s or more . 
comparison between pressures measured from the proximal external jugular vein and a central vein . mean venous pressures were measured in 20 patients in whom a catheter , inserted via the external jugular vein , failed to pass centrally . the catheter used had a rounded end and two side holes . pressures were measured with the patient 's head in three different positions . the pressures were compared with the central venous pressures measured from a catheter inserted through an antecubital vein ( and confirmed to be placed centrally ) . in all patients the differences between the mean pressures from the two sites were all within 3 mm hg and were not influenced by alteration in head position or the side of jugular catheterization . 
a simple atracurium infusion regimen for intra-abdominal surgery . atracurium was used to provide relaxation for intra-abdominal surgery in 15 patients . the regimen comprised an initial bolus ( 0.4 mg kg-1 ) followed by an infusion ( 0.3 mg kg-1 h-1 ) from 10 min after induction until closure of the peritoneum . average duration of infusion was 80 min ( range 48-166 min ) . this regimen provided satisfactory relaxation in 13 patients ; two patients required one additional bolus of atracurium . fourteen patients showed a sustained tetanic response to 50-hz stimulation at the end of surgery and in these neuromuscular blockade was not antagonized . one patient required antagonism following very rapid closure of the abdomen . 
differential actions of volatile anaesthetic agents on a single isolated neurone . the precise mechanism ( s ) and site ( s ) of action of general anaesthetic agents remain a mystery . the early theories of anaesthesia concentrated on a unitary mechanism ; however , many recent investigations emphasize specific interactions between anaesthetic agents and excitable membranes . in this study volatile anaesthetics ( halothane , isoflurane , enflurane and diethyl ether ) applied as vapours in clinical concentrations were observed to produce differential effects on the discharge activity of an isolated crayfish neurone . in addition , both enflurane and diethyl ether induced bursts of discharge activity at concentrations known to produce eeg seizure activity in animals and man . these observations do not support the concept of a common non-specific mechanism of action , but provide further evidence that the action of volatile anaesthetics is selective and may involve multiple sites or mechanisms , or both . 
effects of tubocurarine on plasma histamine concentration in the rat . correlation with the release of histamine from isolated mast cells . the administration of tubocurarine i.v. in man produces hypotension , probably as a result of the release of histamine . the mechanisms involved in this action of tubocurarine on the plasma histamine concentration in rats , and on the isolated peritoneal mast cells were investigated . i.v. injections of tubocurarine ( greater than 5 mg kg-1 ; corresponds to tubocurarine 4 x 10 ( -4 ) mol litre-1 in the plasma of the rats ) evoked a phasic increase in plasma histamine concentration . in vitro studies showed that tubocurarine 4 x 10 ( -4 ) mol litre-1 released about 20 % of the histamine contained in the isolated mast cells . treatment of the mast cells with carbachol or atropine evoked no histamine release , nor did it modify the tubocurarine-induced release of histamine . these results suggest that the increased histamine concentrations in the plasma are attributable to an action of tubocurarine on the mast cells which is not mediated through the acetylcholine receptors distributed on these cells . 
changes in brain surface oxygen tension during profound hypotension induced with sodium nitroprusside or adenosine in the sheep . brain surface oxygen tensions were measured , in sheep ( n = 8 ) , with a seven-barrelled mini-electrode polarized by sweep potentials . mean arterial pressure was reduced to 30 mm hg with either sodium nitroprusside or adenosine . at this value of mean arterial pressure , oxygen supply to cerebral tissue was impaired . there was no significant difference between the two agents in the degree to which the oxygen supply was reduced . 
in vitro muscle contractures induced by halothane and suxamethonium . i : the rat diaphragm . the rat diaphragm was used as an in vitro model for studies of contractures synergistically-induced by halothane and suxamethonium . the effects of three agents reported to inhibit phospholipase a2 activity ( quinacrine , spermine and indomethacin ) , tubocurarine and dantrolene were examined on these contractures . contractures induced by 1 % halothane ( 0.26 + / - 0.02 g ) ( mean + / - sem ) were increased ( 0.60 + / - 0.04 g ) if suxamethonium 50 mmol litre-1 was also in the bathing medium . suxamethonium-induced contractures ( 0.22 + / - 0.03 g ) were also enhanced when halothane was present ( 0.51 + / - 0.03 g ) . spermine , indomethacin and dantrolene antagonized both halothane- and suxamethonium-induced contractures . quinacrine potentiated contractures induced by either halothane or suxamethonium . contractures induced by suxamethonium were antagonized by tubocurarine ; however , contractures induced by halothane were not antagonized by tubocurarine . these results suggest that free fatty acids may be involved in contractures induced synergistically by halothane and suxamethonium . different mechanisms are involved in the induction of contractures by suxamethonium than by halothane . 
in vitro muscle contractures induced by halothane and suxamethonium . ii : human skeletal muscle from normal and malignant hyperthermia susceptible patients . the role of lipolysis in halothane-induced contractures of human skeletal muscle was examined using three inhibitors of phospholipase a2 ( pla2 ) activity ( quinacrine , spermine and indomethacin ) and exogenously administered pla2 . in addition , we examined the effects of the same pla2 inhibitors on contractures induced by halothane in combination with suxamethonium . the studies were conducted on directly stimulated muscle strips isolated from biopsies from patients diagnosed as mh susceptible , or not susceptible , by the halothane contracture test . the liberation of fatty acids from skeletal muscle homogenates was examined to determine whether pla2 activity might be increased in mh susceptible patients . the three pla2 inhibitors antagonized halothane-induced contractures of muscle from mh susceptible patients as well as induction of contractures by suxamethonium and halothane . pre-exposing preparations that were previously unresponsive to halothane to bee venom pla2 caused the muscle strips to respond with contractures upon subsequent challenge with halothane , but not with suxamethonium . free fatty acid production during an in vitro incubation of skeletal muscle homogenates was greater in preparations from mh susceptible patients than in those from patients who were not susceptible . these results suggest that excess liberation of fatty acids may be involved in halothane-induced contractures of muscle from mh susceptible individuals , in the synergism observed between halothane and suxamethonium , and in human mh . 
distribution of trichloroethylene between plasma and erythrocytes in whole blood from fasting subjects . the plasma : erythrocyte distribution ratio of trichloroethylene at room temperature was determined by a direct method using 10 separate blood samples . the trichloroethylene content of plasma was lower than that of the erythrocytes by a ratio having a mean value of 0.63 ( sd 0.05 , range 0.56-0.74 ) . 
a constant current peripheral nerve stimulator ( neurostim t4 ) . description , and evaluation in volunteers . a pocket-size , battery-powered peripheral nerve stimulator featuring a calibrated constant current floating output ( max . 80 ma ) was evaluated in unanaesthetized volunteers . modes of stimulation included continuous 1 hz , continuous train-of-four every 15 s , and on-demand tetanus ( 50 hz per 5 s ) . within the limits of 0-250 v , voltage adjusted automatically for 0.2-ms monophasic square pulses . between 20 and 80 ma , the dial error of current intensity was less than + / - 5 % . maximum allowable resistance for the generation of 40-ma pulses was 5 k omega--that is five times the average tissue impedance as measured in 15 volunteers . with surface electrodes , the current intensity required for maximal indirect muscle stimulation in another 50 individuals was 38 + / - 23 ma ( mean + / - sd ) . with up to 80 ma stimulus current , supramaximal nerve stimulation was obtained in 94 % of the volunteers . 
assessment of the datex relaxograph during anaesthesia and atracurium-induced neuromuscular blockade . the datex relaxograph is a recently introduced electromyographic monitor of neuromuscular transmission . it has been assessed in patients requiring neuromuscular blockade and the results compared with those obtained simultaneously with a force transducer . there was a good correlation between the two methods of measurement for both twitch height and train-of-four ratio ( correlation coefficients 0.93 and 0.97 , respectively ) . the datex relaxograph proved easy to use in the clinical setting . 
a relative thrombocytosis and elevated mean platelet volume are features of gravitational disease . platelet counts were obtained in 60 patients with gravitational ulceration ( gu ) , 60 with gravitational eczema ( ge ) , 56 with endogenous eczema ( ee ) and 60 normal controls . mean platelet volume ( mpv ) , a broad index of platelet size , was estimated in the last 40 patients in each group ( 29 with ee ) . causes of a reactive thrombocytosis were excluded . platelet counts were significantly higher in both gravitational groups than in the ee group or the normal controls ( p = 0.001 ) . ulcer healing produced no significant changes in platelet count , and patients with non-gravitational ulcers had normal platelet counts . mpv was significantly higher in both gravitational groups than in controls after correction for platelet count , by analysis of co-variance ( p = 0.01 ) . these differences in platelet parameters in gravitational disease suggest a possible role for platelets in this disease , and platelet inhibiting therapy may be of value at an early stage in the development of the condition . 
support and stimulation of epidermal cell outgrowth from porcine skin explants by platelet factors . the effect of a platelet homogenate fraction ( phf ) on epidermal cell outgrowth from porcine skin explants was examined in culture medium with and without 5 % foetal bovine serum ( fbs ) . explants were sustained and outgrowth was initiated , supported and stimulated by phf , in the absence of fbs . phf-supported outgrowth was concentration-dependent up to 130 micrograms protein / ml . phf activity was not removed by heat treatment at 100 degrees c for 2 min but was destroyed by heating at 100 degrees c for 5 min . the factor responsible for epidermal cell outgrowth in phf may be epibolin or serum spreading factor , or may be a platelet-derived factor as yet undescribed . viability and outgrowth were stimulated by the ' high molecular weight ' fraction of phf ( greater than 30 kd ) . phf plus 5 % fbs gave inhibition of outgrowth , which was not phf concentration-dependent ; however , this inhibitory effect was variable with different phf preparations . this study is the first to demonstrate an effect of platelet-derived factors on epidermal cell viability and outgrowth . 
the in vitro antimicrobial effect of azelaic acid . various strains of cutaneous micro-organisms were tested in vitro for their survival rates in 0.5 mol / l ( 8.4 % w / v ) azelaic acid solution . all bacterial strains exhibited large reductions in viability ( at least 40-fold ) over a 24 h test period , but little response was noted with pityrosporum ovale . the bactericidal effect of azelaic acid was reduced considerably in the presence of nutrients . minimum inhibitory concentrations ( mics ) and minimum bactericidal ( or fungicidal ) concentrations ( mbcs ) were also determined . mics varied from 0.03 mol / l to 0.25 mol / l ; mbcs were all either 0.25 mol / l or greater . 
demonstration of a unique viral structure : the molluscum viral colony sac . using scanning electron microscopy to study molluscum contagiosum lesions , it has been possible to demonstrate a unique , well defined sac enclosing the virion colony of each infected keratinocyte . this confirms the presence of a structure demonstrated over 50 years ago by micro-dissection , but ignored since it is not seen on either light or transmission electron microscopy . it is postulated that this sac , of unknown origin , favours replication of the virions by providing a site that is both anatomically and immunologically privileged . such relatively unimpeded growth of the virions results in an enlarged cell in which the cytoplasm and nucleus are compressed into a thin outer shell . in the aggregate , this produces a tumour of virus-packed cells rather than a tumour composed of virus-induced cell hyperplasia . 
excision of skin tumours without wound closure . sixty-two patients with 67 large or poorly defined skin tumours predominantly on the head and neck ( 58 basal cell carcinomas ) were treated by excision of the lesion and allowing the defect created to heal by second intention . histological control of the adequacy of excision was monitored using routine vertical sections of formalin-fixed tissue . further re-excisions were performed in 17 patients in whom tumour extended up to or within 1 high power field ( approximately 0.44 mm ) of the excision margin . the formalin-fixed specimens ranged from 6-60 ( mean 21 ) mm in diameter and 2-12 ( mean 5 ) mm in depth . after one excision the time to complete re-epithelialization was directly proportional to the surface area ( r = 0.73 ) and ranged from 13 to 60 days ( mean 33 days ) . measurements of the movements of fixed reference points tattooed at the wound edges in six patients showed that movement of surrounding tissue into the defect accounted for 39-62 % ( mean 45 % ) of the reduction in surface area of the defect during healing . post-operative complications were rare and the cosmetic results were considered good or excellent in 48 patients , fair in nine and poor , i.e. requiring corrective surgery , in three patients . poor results were due to distortions of free margins , e.g. lower eyelid and nasal margin . the major benefit of this technique is the ease with which further excisions can be performed when histologically indicated . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
no association between malignant melanoma and acne or psoriasis : results from the western canada melanoma study . in a study of 651 patients with cutaneous malignant melanoma and matched controls , no association was found with a history of acne vulgaris or psoriasis . examination of the severity , age at onset and treatment for acne or psoriasis , and analysis by age , sex and site distribution of melanoma , revealed no evidence of any association . 
proceedings of the 236th meeting of the netherlands society for dermatology and venereology , amsterdam , 1 february 1986. 
bazex paraneoplastic acrokeratosis : a case report and response to tigason . a clinically typical case of bazex acrokeratosis neoplastica is presented . this case is unusual in that the syndrome developed two years after a neoplasm was diagnosed . almost complete clinical clearance was obtained with oral tigason , making it the first recorded case to improve without removal of the underlying neoplasm . 
atypical angiomatosis in polyarteritis nodosa . biopsies from an area of livedo reticularis and adjacent to a leg ulcer in a woman with polyarteritis nodosa showed florid angioendothelial proliferation simulating angiosarcoma . this angioproliferative reaction has not been described previously in polyarteritis nodosa . its microscopic differentiation from angiosarcoma is important . 
granulomatous cheilitis and a positive kveim test . a female patient with a protracted history of multitudinary symptoms more recently developed granulomatous cheilitis ( gc ) and underwent extensive investigations . her kveim test was positive . 
generalized pustular psoriasis precipitated by trazodone in the treatment of depression . severe psoriasis is commonly associated with depression and may be its cause . the hazards of treating such patients with lithium are well known ( lazarus & gilgor , 1979 ) , but other drugs may also destabilize psoriasis . we report a patient in whom the anti-depressant trazodone hydrochloride ( molipaxin , roussel ) , a serotonin antagonist , provoked generalized pustular psoriasis ( gpp ) . 
papular and nodular mucinosis associated with systemic lupus erythematosus . a patient is described in whom a papulo-nodular eruption occurred in association with systemic lupus erythematosus . histopathology disclosed a diffuse deposition of mucin , mainly hyaluronic acid , in the dermis . this , and the 10 similar cases which have been reported in the literature , belong to a distinct clinico-pathological entity for which we propose the eponym of papular and nodular mucinosis of gold , after the first observer to report it . 
acro-osteolysis and the nail unit [ letter ] 
methotrexate for intractable benign familial chronic pemphigus [ letter ] 
wallace 's line in serum sickness and kawasaki disease [ letter ] 
management of prolactinomas--1986 . 
phenytoin kinetics during pregnancy and the puerperium . during pregnancy changes in maternal physiology and plasma composition may alter drug binding and dose requirements . we have measured plasma unbound and total phenytoin , and saliva concentrations at intervals in 11 pregnant epileptics . plasma albumin concentrations were also measured in pregnant and non-pregnant women . saliva phenytoin correlated closely with the plasma unbound concentrations ( r = 0.98 ) . the saliva : plasma ( s : p ) ratio , reflecting the free fraction , was variable during pregnancy but tended to increase to maximal values at delivery and return to non-pregnant values within 2-8 weeks thereafter . plasma albumin concentrations correlated poorly with phenytoin binding . binding in umbilical cord plasma appeared higher than that in maternal plasma and total fetal concentrations correlated closely with maternal plasma concentrations at delivery . no ill effects of phenytoin were detected in the newborn infant . during the third trimester phenytoin dose increments were necessary to maintain therapeutic concentrations . after delivery maternal saliva phenytoin concentrations rose , and dose reductions were necessary to avoid clinical symptoms of toxicity . it is therefore appropriate to monitor saliva phenytoin concentrations regularly both during pregnancy and the puerperium . 
blood group antibody screening tests during pregnancy . in a 2-year period 667 sera from approximately 70 , 000 ( 0.95 % ) antenatal patients were found to contain 726 atypical red blood cell antibodies . overall , 66 % of the immunized mothers were rhesus ( d ) positive . apart from four antibody specificities to rhesus system antigens , knowledge of the rhesus ( d ) group gave no guide to the ability of the patients to form any of the remaining 21 specificities encountered . of the 726 antibodies 221 ( 30 % ) were not detected in the initial sample tested and 50 of the 92 patients who produced antibodies during pregnancy had not developed detectable antibody when they were sampled at 28 weeks . the significance of these late onset antibodies is discussed both in relation to the risk of haemolytic disease in the newborn and transfusion reactions in the mother . an optimum protocol for testing is defined which takes account of antibody production during the pregnancy and use of this protocol constitutes an attempt to combine maximum clinical safety with minimal consumption of resources . 
inadequate maternal vascular response to placentation in pregnancies complicated by pre-eclampsia and by small-for-gestational age infants . an examination of the maternal vascular response to placentation shows that physiological changes in the placental bed normally extend from the decidua into the inner myometrium . in pre-eclampsia and in a proportion of pregnancies with small-for-gestational age infants ( sga ) the physiological changes are restricted to the decidual segments alone . in addition , complete absence of physiological changes throughout the entire length of some spiral arteries is seen in pre-eclampsia and sga . this new observation is confirmed in a study of basal plates of placentas from abnormal pregnancies . intraluminal endovascular trophoblast may be seen in the placental bed spiral arteries in the third trimester in pre-eclampsia and sga , a feature not seen beyond the second trimester in normal pregnancy . these findings point to a defect in the normal interaction between migratory trophoblast and maternal uterine tissues in pre-eclampsia and in sga . 
the relation between the need for intubation at birth , abnormal cardiotocograms in labour and cord artery blood gas and ph values . a consecutive series of 56 infants of 32 weeks gestation or more who were resuscitated at birth by endotracheal intubation was studied to determine the occurrence of abnormal cardiotocograph traces and acidosis as determined by cord artery blood measurements . thirty-two infants ( 57 % ) had neither cardiotocographic abnormalities nor acidosis ; in this group the factors associated with the need for intubation were meconium stained amniotic fluid , operative delivery , anaesthetic agents given to the mother , a tight nuchal cord , and traumatic vaginal delivery . the need for intubation at birth should not automatically be regarded as evidence of intrapartum hypoxia or disturbed acid-base balance . 
fetal distress during labour in diabetic pregnancy . the frequency of fetal distress in labour was studied in 46 diabetic women and in 46 non-diabetic matched controls . fetal distress was assessed by electronic fetal heart rate ( fhr ) monitoring and fetal scalp blood ph determinations in late first stage of labour . ominous fhr and / or low ph ( less than 7.26 ) was more common in the diabetic group than in the control group ( 17.4 % and 10.9 % , respectively ) but the difference was not statistically significant . the frequency of caesarean section and low apgar score at 1 min was significantly higher in the diabetic group ( p less than 0.05 ) . there was no correlation between maternal blood glucose regulation and the occurrence of fetal distress in the diabetic group . the results suggest that fetal distress may be slightly more common in labour in diabetic women compared with controls managed in a similar way . careful fhr monitoring and liberal use of fetal scalp blood ph determinations is recommended . 
early conceptual loss in subfertile patients . the incidence of early conceptual loss was studied in 27 subfertile women by measuring their serum and urine hcg levels in the luteal phase . eleven patients eventually had clinically confirmed pregnancies , nine of whom had had significant hcg elevations in previous menstrual cycles . in the remaining 16 patients , who have so far failed to achieve a clinical pregnancy , only three had had elevated hcg results . thus ' apparent ' early conceptual loss in non-pregnancy cycles was found to be more often associated with the fertile group of patients . 
perinatal listeriosis . a report of six cases . the clinical and pathological findings in six patients with perinatal listeriosis are presented . one pregnancy resulted in a live-born infant who developed listerial septicaemia but made a complete recovery following prompt treatment . the other pregnancies ended in intrauterine death . often antecedent maternal prodromal illness preceded expulsion of a macerated fetus by only a matter of hours making early diagnosis difficult . in all cases the diagnosis of listerial infection was apparent only after the birth of the fetus or new born . 
advanced unruptured interstitial gestation . case report . 
intussusception in pregnancy . case report and review of the literature . 
conservative management of spontaneous rupture of the liver in pregnancy . case report . 
unilateral polycystic ovary . case report . 
characterization of gonadotrophin receptors in a testosterone-producing ovarian androblastoma . case report . 
conservative treatment of epithelial ovarian cancer in a 19-year-old girl . case report . 
women 's views on keeping fetal movement charts [ letter ] 
results of donor insemination related to specific male infertility and unsuspected female infertility [ letter ] 
the pill does not cause ' thrush ' [ letter ] 
a syndrome of liver damage and intravascular coagulation in the last trimester of normotensive pregnancy . a clinical and histopathological study [ letter ] 
effect of epidural analgesia on maximum and minimum blood pressures during the first stage of labour in primigravidae with mild / moderate gestational hypertension [ letter ] 
ophthalmic survey of a diabetic clinic . i : ocular findings . a medical diabetic clinic was examined for evidence of diabetic eye disease . of 681 patients invited for ocular examination 96.6 % attended for screening . the results for insulin dependent diabetics ( idds ) and non-insulin dependent diabetics ( nidds ) were analysed separately and the major findings were : cataracts were present in 40.8 % of idds and 46.2 % of nidds , with an increased incidence with advancing age . for younger age groups there were significantly more cataracts in idds than in nidds ( p less than 0.001 ) . cataract extraction was required in 4.2 % of the patients , which is higher than the general population . the presence of retinopathy was related to the duration of diabetes ( p less than 0.001 ) but not to age of onset of diabetes . retinopathy was found in 43.4 % of idds and 20.1 % of nidds . sight threatening retinopathy was present in 13.3 % of idd and 4.3 % of nidd eyes . advanced diabetic eye disease was seen in 0.6 % of eyes . 
ophthalmic survey of a diabetic clinic : ii . requirements for treatment of retinopathy . the eyes of 658 patients attending a district general hospital diabetic clinic were examined for retinopathy requiring treatment by photocoagulation or vitreoretinal surgery . although the majority of patients with serious retinopathy were already under ophthalmic supervision , 39 cases ( 52 eyes ) were found which required treatment . eighty eyes had had previous photocoagulation , and treatment was recommended for maculopathy in 40 eyes , proliferative retinopathy in seven eyes , and combined maculopathy and proliferative retinopathy in five eyes . this suggested that existing referral criteria for photocoagulation in the population studied were reasonably accurate for proliferative retinopathy , but maculopathy was more frequently overlooked . in insulin dependent patients ( idds ) undetected maculopathy was found in 17 / 416 eyes , ( 4.0 % ) and in non-insulin dependent patients ( nidds ) 28 / 899 ( 3.1 % ) . untreated proliferative retinopathy was discovered in 5 / 416 ( 1.2 % ) idd eyes and 7 / 899 ( 0.8 % ) of nidd eyes . vitreoretinal surgery was required in six eyes ( 0.5 % ) for vitreous haemorrhage or traction retinal detachment . equipment for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy is now almost universally available in ophthalmic departments , but time for patient management by trained staff may be inadequate . each uk ophthalmic consultant needs approximately 100 sessions per year to monitor and treat known cases of retinopathy apart from time required to train junior staff . 
effects of increasing numbers of phagocytic inclusions on human retinal pigment epithelial cells in culture : a model for aging . cultures of human retinal pigment epithelial cells have been challenged with a number of biological ( lipofuscin , melanin , and rod outer segments ) and non-biological ( latex microspheres ) particles at a variety of concentrations . the particles were chosen to include examples of both degradable and non-degradable systems . a range of morphological changes were observed by phase contrast microscopy , and these became more atypical with increasing concentration . at the highest concentration cells had ingested so many particles that many had died and others had ruptured . the time course of these changes indicated a relationship between cellular lytic activity and the capacity of the particle to degrade . the potential of this system as a model for studying senescence is discussed . 
foveomacular retinitis . a group of patients is described who developed the clinical features of foveomacular retinitis . no causative factors were isolated , and all patients strongly denied any type of sun gazing . it is possible that there is a group of patients who have the features of foveomacular retinitis but have not had any direct exposure to the sun . these patients would then constitute a primary type of foveomacular retinitis , as opposed to a secondary type which has a known cause and is synonymous with solar retinopathy . 
electrophysiological assessment of aphakic cystoid macular oedema . focal electroretinograms ( ferg ) , pattern electroretinograms ( perg ) , and visual evoked potentials ( vep ) were studied in a group of 30 aphakic patients with cystoid macular oedema ( acme ) . when compared with a control group of age-matched aphakics , 35 % of patients were found to have abnormal ferg responses and 53 % --over half of whom had normal ferg responses--showed abnormal perg amplitudes . although most of the patients had associated optic disc leakage , vep latencies were normal in 26 out of 30. these results may explain the more severe visual loss seen in some acme patients where the ophthalmologically visible retinal changes do not seem sufficient to explain such reduction in vision . 
anterior chamber depth in open angle glaucoma . anterior chamber depth was measured in patients with primary open angle glaucoma , low tension glaucoma , pigmentary dispersion syndrome , and glaucoma suspects . multiple linear regression analysis demonstrated that anterior chamber depth is a function of sex , age , and refractive error . values for anterior chamber depth corrected for age and refractive error were greater in patients with pigmentary dispersion syndrome than in patients with other forms of open angle glaucoma or in glaucoma suspects . 
response of exfoliation glaucoma to laser trabeculoplasty . the comparative response of exfoliation ( ef ) glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma ( poag ) to laser trabeculoplasty ( ltp ) was studied retrospectively . the effectiveness of argon laser trabeculoplasty ( ltp ) was compared in 26 eyes of patients with ef glaucoma ( uncontrollable by maximally tolerated medical therapy ) and 28 eyes of patients with poag ( controls ) . 64 % of the poag group and 46 % of the ef glaucoma group received treatment of the entire angle in two divided sessions in order to reduce the intraocular pressure ( iop ) to less than or equal to 22 mmhg . all second treatments were performed at least four to six weeks after the initial session . evaluation of the postoperative course of iop by means of the kaplan-meier curve for data analysis indicated that ef patients ' failed ' at a faster rate than poag patients after both the initial and consecutive laser treatments . the rate of failure in the ef group , however , was greater following the initial 180 degrees treatment . although patients with ef glaucoma have a large initial reduction in intraocular pressure after ltp , to increase the probability of maintaining intraocular pressures of less than or equal to 22 mmhg consecutive 180 degrees treatments should be considered . 
augmented medial rectus recession in the management of esotropia . forty-six children awaiting surgery for concomitant esotropia were placed into two matched groups . one group received bilateral medial rectus recessions , while the second group received augmented bilateral medial rectus recessions . by recession the conjunctiva and subconjunctival tissue in addition to the medial rectus we consistently increased the correction obtained . with bilateral medial rectus recession to correct large angle esotropia application of the augmented technique is more likely to provide a full correction . 
results after beta-irradiation ( 106ru / 106rh ) of choroidal melanomas : 20 years ' experience . from 1964 to 1984 309 patients with choroidal melanoma were treated with 106ru / 106rh beta ray applicators ( 1000 gy at the apex of the tumour within 7-14 days ) . in cases 216 ( 69.9 % ) this treatment was successful for a mean follow-up period of 6.7 years after irradiation . in 53 cases ( 17.2 % ) the eye had to be enucleated , and 40 patients ( 12.9 % ) died from metastases within this period . of the 216 successfully treated patients 114 ( 52.8 % ) developed flat scars and 49 ( 22.7 % ) retained a visual acuity of 1.5-0.5 . radiogenic late complications with damage to the retinal capillary system were the main causes of visual deterioration , especially in eyes with tumours close to the posterior pole . the survival rate is substantially higher than that for patients whose eyes were primarily enucleated . beta ray applicators with 106ru / 106rh can be recommended as an effective tool and a simple and cheap procedure to cure patients with small and medium sized choroidal melanomas . they save the eye without endangering our patients ' lives . 
arteriovenous communication of the iris . a case of arteriovenous communication of the iris in the left eye of a 45-year-old man is reported . the haemodynamic changes and differential diagnosis of this kind of communication are briefly discussed . 
adenosquamous carcinoma of the lacrimal caruncle : a case report . a 76-year-old caucasian woman presented with a caruncle tumour , histologically diagnosed as mixed adenosquamous carcinoma . complete excision was performed , but this necessitated removing parts of the lacrimal canaliculi . no local recurrence or distant metastasis was found after six months ' follow-up , and spontaneous recanalisation of both canaliculi occurred . this tumour is believed to be a primary adenosquamous carcinoma of the caruncle and possibly the first reported case . long term follow up is planned to detect late metastasis , but complete excision of the tumour and its favourable site should yield a good prognosis . 
a recent epidemic of coxsackie virus type a24 acute haemorrhagic conjunctivitis in singapore . a recent epidemic of acute conjunctivitis in singapore showed again the importance of coxsackie virus type a24 variant as a causative agent of acute haemorrhagic conjunctivitis ( ahc ) . although the ocular manifestations appeared similar to those described for the 1970 and 1975 outbreaks , a markedly higher rate of respiratory involvements was noted . not observed in previous epidemics were herpes-like vesicles in the conjunctiva and eyelids of one patient and vesicles in the buccal mucosa and lips of another from whom coxsackie virus a24 was isolated . the most interesting finding in this study was the isolation of five wild ( non-sabin ) poliovirus type 1 strains . three strains were obtained from conjunctival and two from throat swabs of patients with mild to severe conjunctivitis . it is conceivable that the rare reports of polio-like paralysis or radiculomyelitis accompanying or following ahc in a few asian countries could be attributed to concurrent infections with a poliovirus and either enterovirus type 70 or coxsackie virus type a24 . 
hydroxyurea-induced augmentation of fetal hemoglobin production in patients with sickle cell anemia . five patients with sickle cell anemia were treated with hydroxyurea ( hu ) , in hopes of augmenting their production of fetal hemoglobin . laboratory responses in two patients treated for more than 2 years were encouraging and there were suggestions of clinical improvement . long-term hu therapy should be considered for severely affected adults with sickle cell anemia who are willing to accept what is probably a small risk of carcinogenesis . preliminary chromosomal analysis and knowledge of the clastogenic properties of hu suggest that conception and pregnancy should be avoided . pharmacokinetic studies will probably be necessary to adjust individual dosage schedules so that cytotoxicity is avoided . f cell responses can be seen in 2 to 3 weeks if the hu dose is optimal , but establishment of a large number of f cells in the circulation may take a month or longer . 
the xerocytosis of hb sc disease . patients with hb sc disease were found to have microcytic and hyperchromic red cell indices despite mild reticulocytosis . iron deficiency anemia was ruled out by the finding of normal serum ferritin levels . in order to determine whether the microcytosis was due to coexistent alpha-thalassemia , restriction endonuclease mapping was performed on genomic dna extracted from peripheral blood leukocytes . patients with hb sc disease had microcytic indices despite the presence of a full complement of four alpha-genes ( alpha alpha / alpha alpha ) , suggesting that the microcytosis may be due to cellular dehydration ( or xerocytosis ) , since the mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration in hb sc disease patients was significantly higher than in controls . this possibility was investigated further by the determination of rbc cation content . rbc na levels were similar in sc and normal red cells . hb sc rbcs , however , had significantly reduced k levels . these findings show that rbc cation content , and thus cell water , is decreased in hb sc disease . the decreased rbc k level in the presence of normal cellular na concentration suggests selective k loss that is not due to inhibition of the na k pump . ouabain-insensitive k+ efflux was increased to four times normal in sc cells . cell dehydration was confirmed by the demonstration of increased high-density rbcs on discontinuous stractan density gradients and by osmotic gradient ektacytometry . cellular dehydration and its sequelae were worse in cc erythrocytes and milder in ac cells than in hb sc red cells . taken together , these data indicate that in hb sc disease the rbcs are severely dehydrated and typically microcytic and hyperchromic . hb sc rbcs seem to be dehydrated due to selective k loss . these findings suggest a functional interrelationship between hb sc , the red cell membrane , and cation regulation . 
different stimulative effects of human bone marrow and fetal liver stromal cells on erythropoiesis in long-term culture . the factors determining the predominantly erythroid direction of human fetal liver hematopoiesis are unknown . we compared the capacities of human fetal liver and bone marrow stromas to sustain fetal and adult hematopoiesis in long-term cultures . in various marrow-fetal liver combinations of stroma and recharge , the maintenance of erythroid ( bfu-e ) and myeloid ( cfu-gm ) precursors in the nonadherent phase was determined . the morphology of the fetal liver nucleated cells during culture was also examined . this study shows that fetal liver stromas efficiently support fetal bfu-e for 6 to 7 weeks in vitro . bone marrow stromas were not able to maintain fetal bfu-e beyond 4 weeks . significant numbers of marrow bfu-e were not sustained in vitro on either source of stroma . on the other hand , the stroma layers of fetal liver and marrow origin were equally effective in maintaining fetal cfu-gm and adult cfu-gm in long-term culture . these findings show that the human embryonic liver stroma is a preferential site for stimulating fetal erythropoiesis . they do not demonstrate differences in stroma function to explain the relative paucity of myelopoiesis in the fetal liver . 
factor ixalabama : a point mutation in a clotting protein results in hemophilia b . factor ixalabama is a variant factor ix molecule responsible for a clinically moderate form of hemophilia b . twenty-five kilobases ( kb ) of the variant gene , including seven exons coding for the structural protein , were cloned and characterized . the restriction map and the arrangement of coding regions are identical to those of the normal gene . dna sequence analysis of the coding regions revealed a single base-pair difference between the gene for factor ixalabama and the normal factor ix gene . an adenine to guanine transition in the first nucleotide of exon d causes the substitution of a glycine codon ( ggt ) for the normal aspartic acid codon ( gat ) . this point mutation results in a single amino acid substitution at residue 47 of the zymogen and represents the genetic defect in factor ixalabama . 
inhibition of hemoglobin production by transferrin-gallium . recent clinical trials evaluating gallium nitrate as a chemotherapeutic agent have reported the development of microcytic hypochromic anemia in patients treated with this agent . because gallium is known to bind avidly to transferrin , we examined the effect of transferrin-gallium ( tf-ga ) on hemoglobin production by friend erythroleukemia cells in vitro . cellular hemoglobin production , as assessed by benzidine staining , cellular hemoglobin content , and 59fe incorporation into heme , was significantly decreased following exposure of cells to tf-ga . tf-ga led to an early decrease in cellular 59fe incorporation even before changes in hemoglobin production were detected . a marked increase in cellular transferrin receptor expression occurred following exposure of cells to tf-ga . tf-ga inhibition of hemoglobin production could be reversed and hemoglobin production could be restored to normal by addition to the media of either transferrin-iron ( tf-fe ) or iron-pyridoxal isonicotinoyl hydrazone , a compound capable of supplying iron directly to reticulocytes for heme synthesis without transferrin as a mediator . these studies provide an explanation for the development of anemia in patients treated with gallium nitrate and suggest that gallium 's mechanism of chemotherapeutic action includes inhibition of cellular iron incorporation . 
association of red cell spherocytosis with deletion of the short arm of chromosome 8. congenital spherocytic anemia is a common disorder , but in most cases the nature of the underlying membrane lesion is unknown and the genetic defect has not yet been unequivocally mapped to a chromosome . we studied two dysmorphic siblings with neurologic findings and hemolytic anemia . clinical and laboratory findings in these two siblings were consistent with the diagnosis of congenital spherocytosis whereas both parents and two unaffected siblings were normal . the two affected children had an abnormal chromosomal complement as a result of a deletion of the short arm of chromosome 8 [ ( 46 , xx , del ( 8 ) ( p11.1p21.1 ) ] . these results suggest that a gene whose deletion results in a congenital spherocytic anemia phenotype resides on this region on the short arm of chromosome 8. 
inhibition of thromboxane formation in vivo and ex vivo : implications for therapy with platelet inhibitory drugs . the capacity of platelets to generate thromboxane a2 , reflected by measurement of serum thromboxane b2 ( txb2 ) , greatly exceeds the systemic production of thromboxane in vivo . thus , it is possible that substantial but incomplete inhibition of thromboxane formation ex vivo would still allow marked augmentation of thromboxane production in vivo . to address this hypothesis , we administered aspirin 120 mg , a selective inhibitor of thromboxane synthase ( txsl ) , 3- ( 1h-imidazol-1-yl-methyl ) -2-methyl-1h-indole-1-propanoic acid ( uk-38 , 485 ) 200 mg , and a combination of both drugs to 12 healthy volunteers and measured the effects on serum txb2 and urinary 2 , 3-dinor-thromboxane b2 ( tx-m ) , an index of endogenous thromboxane biosynthesis . although serum txb2 was maximally inhibited by 94 + / - 1 % after aspirin and 96 + / - 2 % after the txsl , maximal depression of tx-m was only 28 + / - 8 % and 37 + / - 9 % , respectively . combination of aspirin with the txsl resulted in a small but significant increase in inhibition of thromboxane generation ex vivo ( 98 + / - 1 % v 94 + / - 1 % ; p less than 0.05 ) , but a disproportionately greater fall in thromboxane synthesis in vivo ( 58 + / - 7 % ; p less than 0.01 ) . consistent with further inhibition of platelet thromboxane synthesis , addition of the txsl abolished the transient decline in prostacyclin formation after aspirin alone . administration of a lower dose of aspirin ( 20 mg ) to 6 healthy subjects caused a small reduction in tx-m ( 12 + / - 4 % ; p less than 0.05 ) and inhibited serum txb2 by 48 + / - 2 % . the relationship between inhibition of platelet capacity to form thromboxane ex vivo ( serum txb2 ) and synthesis in vivo ( tx-m ) departed markedly from the line of identity . when total blockade of the capacity of platelets to generate thromboxane is approached , minor decrements in capacity result in a disproportionate depression of actual thromboxane biosynthesis . these results imply that pharmacologic inhibition of serum txb2 must be virtually complete before thromboxane-dependent platelet activation is influenced in vivo . 
activation of plasminogen by single-chain urokinase or by two-chain urokinase--a demonstration that single-chain urokinase has a low catalytic activity ( pro-urokinase ) . single-chain urokinase ( sc-uk ) has an intrinsic amidolytic activity , as measured with synthetic substrate ( kabi s-2444 ; pyro-glu-gly-arg-pnitroanalide ) , which was found to be 0.1 % to 0.2 % that of its plasmin-activated derivative , two-chain uk ( tc-uk ) . a study of the reaction of sc-uk with plasminogen is complicated by the effect of the reaction product , plasmin , on both reactants . the resultant generation of tc-uk and lys-plasminogen produces secondary reactions which greatly augment plasminogen activation . to confine enzymatic activity to the primary reaction , after pretreatment to eliminate trace tc-uk contaminants , sc-uk was incubated with glu- or lys-plasminogen in the presence of aprotinin ( 500 kiu / ml ) to inhibit generated plasmin and dansyl-glutamyl-glycyl-arginyl-chloromethylketone ( 20 mumol / l ) , which irreversibly inhibited tc-uk but not sc-uk . analysis by reducing sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis ( sds-page ) showed a plasminogen-activating activity for sc-uk that was approximately 0.4 % that of tc-uk . both sc-uk and tc-uk preferentially activated lys-plasminogen over glu-plasminogen . similarly , glu-plasminogen activation was augmented by lysine or soluble fibrin . the ratio of the reaction rates of sc-uk and tc-uk were comparable for glu- and lys-plasminogen . it is concluded that there is a major difference in the catalytic activities of sc-uk and tc-uk against plasminogen that is comparable to that against synthetic substrate . 
flow cytometric analysis of human bone marrow : i . normal erythroid development . flow cytometry was used to identify maturational differences of erythroid lineage cells in normal human bone marrow by combining physical characteristics , the expression of multiple cell surface antigens , and nucleic acid content . normal low-density bone marrow cells could be divided into four populations , based on forward and right-angle light scattering . erythroid cells , at different maturational stages , were found in three of these four marrow subpopulations . the sequentially correlated expression of three cell surface markers--hle-1 , transferrin receptor , and glycophorin--allowed us to study erythroid maturation from the colony forming cell to the mature erythrocyte . hle-1 was expressed on the earliest identifiable erythroid cells and was progressively lost as the cells matured . transferrin receptor began to be expressed at the bfu-e stage and disappeared at the late reticulocyte stage . transferrin receptor expression preceded glycophorin expression , the latter beginning on morphologically recognizable erythroid precursors just after the cfu-e stage . in contrast to both hle-1 and transferrin receptor , which were progressively lost during the maturational process , once glycophorin had been maximally expressed on the cell surface , it remained at constant quantities to the mature erythrocyte stage . although developing nucleated erythroid cells at approximately the normoblast stage had light-scattering properties similar to those of lymphoid cells , these two cell types could be resolved by cell surface antigen expression . normoblasts were glycophorin positive and hle negative , whereas lymphoid cells expressed hle and either leu 4 , leu 11 , or leu 12. decreases in cellular nucleic acid content , corresponding first to the extrusion of the nucleus and second to the loss of reticulum , characterized the later stages of erythroid development . these characteristics and instrumentation can be used to purify erythroid cells at various developmental stages . 
platelet surface-bound igg in patients with immune and nonimmune thrombocytopenia . we quantitated the amount of platelet surface-bound igg using an 125i monoclonal anti-igg assay in 149 patients with thrombocytopenia and 260 normal donors . the normal subjects had 122 + / - 5 molecules of igg / platelet ( mean + / - se ) . fifty-five patients with nonimmune thrombocytopenia had 338 + / - 37 molecules of igg / platelet , whereas 67 patients with immune thrombocytopenia studied at the time of their initial evaluation had 4 , 120 + / - 494 molecules of igg / platelet . an analysis of the distribution of values in these two groups indicated that 90 % of the patients with immune thrombocytopenia had greater than 800 molecules of igg / platelet , whereas only 7 % of patients with nonimmune thrombocytopenia exceeded this amount . the immune thrombocytopenia patients included 39 idiopathic , 14 secondary , and 14 drug-induced disorders , and they did not significantly differ in their distribution of values for platelet igg . the nonimmune thrombocytopenic patients included 12 cases with a platelet destructive mechanism ; their platelet-bound igg was similar to that of the other nonimmune patients . twenty-seven patients with treatment resistant immune thrombocytopenia were also studied they had 2 , 100 + / - 670 molecules of igg / platelet . their values were significantly greater than those of the nonimmune thrombocytopenic patients and not significantly different from those of immune thrombocytopenic group . their distribution of values was much broader , however , with 33 % of patients having less than 800 molecules of igg / platelet , suggesting possible alternate mechanisms in their thrombocytopenia . thus , patients with immune thrombocytopenia have a high frequency of elevated igg on the platelet surface which reflects the pathophysiology of this disorder . quantitation of platelet-bound igg provides a useful laboratory tool in the differential between immune and nonimmune thrombocytopenia . 
megakaryocytopoiesis : incorporation of tritiated thymidine by small acetylcholinesterase-positive cells in murine bone marrow during antibody-induced thrombocytopenia . the ability of small acetylcholinesterase-positive ( sache ) cells to incorporate tritiated thymidine ( 3h-tdr ) was studied in the bone marrow of mice made acutely thrombocytopenic by injection of guinea pig antimouse platelet serum ( aps ) and in control mice injected with normal guinea pig serum ( ns ) . 3h-tdr was administered in vivo , and bone marrow was collected at various time points thereafter . the initial labeling index ( li ) for both groups was about 30 % . after four hours , the li increased and reached peak values at 48 hours , but was lower in thrombocytopenic animals . the lower peak li in aps-treated animals may be the result of both a faster rate of influx of unlabeled cells into the acetylcholinesterase ( ache ) positive cell compartment and efflux of more heavily labeled , and probably polyploid , sache cells into the compartment of recognizable megakaryocytes . in both groups the increasing li occurred concomitantly with a decreasing mean grain count . this may indicate cellular division by some fraction of sache cells . heterogeneity in nuclear morphology was also demonstrated , and the frequency of individual morphologies was altered in aps-treated animals . in addition , cells that incorporated 3h-tdr were larger than those that did not . this group of small cells appears to represent a pivotal point in megakaryocytopoiesis in which the switch from mitosis to endomitosis is occurring . 
ektacytometric measurement of sickle cell deformability as a continuous function of oxygen tension [ published erratum appears in blood 1987 apr ; 69 ( 4 ) : 1272 ] in an effort to study the rheologic effects of small amounts of hemoglobin s ( hbs ) polymer in sickle red cells , we have used the ektacytometer , a laser diffraction couette viscometer , to measure sickle cell deformability as a function of oxygen tension . sickle cell populations of defined intracellular hemoglobin concentration ( mchc ) were isolated using stractan density gradients and were resuspended in buffered polyvinylpyrrolidone solutions for deformability measurements . using a gas-porous , hollow fiber gas exchange system to establish a linear gradient in oxygen tension , deformability was measured over a po2 range of 76 to 0 mm hg . parallel spectroscopic determinations of oxygen saturation permitted determination of cell deformability as a function of oxygen saturation for each discrete mchc population . from these measurements the level of oxygen saturation at which a loss in cell deformability was first detected could be defined . then , using the data of noguchi and schecter , the amount of polymerized hbs in the cells at that defined level of oxygen saturation was estimated . the results of this analysis suggested that the quantity of polymer that caused a detectable loss in cell deformability increased with increasing mchc . in addition , for mchc above 30 g / dl , this represented a substantial fraction of the total hbs in the cell . 
the cellular basis for different fetal hemoglobin levels among sickle cell individuals with two , three , and four alpha-globin genes . fetal hemoglobin ( hbf ) levels vary widely among individuals with sickle cell anemia ( ss ) . previous studies have suggested that hbf levels in ss individuals with alpha-thalassemia ( two or three functional alpha-globin genes ) are lower than hbf levels in ss individuals with four normal alpha-globin genes . using immunocytochemical techniques , we studied f cell production as measured by % f reticulocytes , the amount of hbf per f cell , and the preferential survival of f cells versus non-f cells in 51 subjects with four alpha genes , 32 subjects with three alpha genes , and 18 subjects with two alpha genes . comparison between alpha-globin gene groups was performed for the total sample as well as for a subset of 82 individuals who had replicate samples and a further subset of 39 age-matched individuals . % hbf levels were 6.8 , 4.9 , and 4.5 percent for the total four- , three- , and two-alpha-globin-gene groups , respectively . the percentage of f reticulocytes , percentage hbf per f cell , and the enrichment ratio ( % f cell / % f reticulocytes ) did not change significantly with alpha-globin gene number . moreover , no correlation existed between alpha-globin gene number and the absolute number of f cells in any group studied . however , there was a strong inverse correlation ( r = -0.407 , p = .0001 ) between non-f cell levels ( 1.7 + / - 2 , 2.2 + / - 5 , 3.0 + / - 1.0 x 10 ( 12 ) / l ) and decreasing alpha-globin gene number . these data suggest that falling hbf levels among ss individuals with lessened numbers of alpha-globin genes reflect prolonged survival of non-f cells and are not due to intrinsic differences in f cell production or in the amount of hbf per f cell . the improved survival of non-f cells in ss alpha-thalassemia is presumed to be due to the lower mchc observed in such individuals . 
possible absence of common polymorphisms in coagulation factor ix gene in japanese subjects . four distinct intragenic polymorphisms in the coagulation factor ix gene which have been reported to be important for family diagnosis of caucasian hemophilia b were studied in 51 normal japanese subjects ( 21 males and 30 females ) . high-molecular-weight dna prepared from peripheral blood lymphocytes were digested with endonuclease , ddel , mspl , taql or xmnl , and were studied by southern blot analysis with factor ix complementary dna as a probe . none of the minor fragments produced by these enzymes was found in the normal japanese dna samples tested , although the probe detects minor allelic forms in control caucasian dna samples . our data suggest that the frequent polymorphic sites found in caucasians are possibly absent in the japanese population . 
new abnormalities in the morphology , cell surface receptors , and electrolyte metabolism of in ( lu ) erythrocytes . the in ( lu ) phenotype is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and is characterized by suppression of the lutheran , p1 , i , and aua erythrocyte blood group antigens . we have developed a monoclonal antibody ( l21 ) that strongly agglutinates all erythrocytes except in ( lu ) , and we have identified eight in ( lu ) individuals among 42 , 000 blood donors tested . studies of two families confirmed the dominant mode of inheritance and revealed several new features of this phenotype . the erythrocytes of all five affected individuals from the two families exhibited diminished hemagglutination by the lectin concanavalin a , although they reacted normally with several other lectins . the erythrocytes of two affected individuals in one family exhibited marked acanthocytosis . the erythrocytes of the proposita of the other family exhibited a mild degree of poikilocytosis , but the cells of the other two affected individuals in this family had normal morphology . the osmotic fragility of fresh in ( lu ) erythrocytes was normal , but after incubation for 24 hours at 37 degrees c in plasma the in ( lu ) cells exhibited a marked increase in resistance to osmotic lysis . during the incubation period the erythrocytes lost k+ and their total cation content was diminished . these data indicate that in addition to the suppression of blood group antigens noted previously , the in ( lu ) phenotype includes a variety of morphological abnormalities and a defect in electrolyte metabolism . the use of l21 and similar monoclonal antibodies provides a more sensitive means of detecting in ( lu ) erythrocytes than typing with human anti-lub antisera . 
preclinical assessment of purging with vp-16-213 : key role for long-term marrow cultures . an evaluation of the effects of vp-16 on normal human marrow cells and representative lymphoma-leukemia cell lines was performed to assess this agent 's applicability to ex vivo marrow purging . tumoricidal dose curves were defined using malignant lymphoid ( sk-dhl2 and reh ) and myeloid ( hl-60 ) cells admixed with a 20-fold excess of irradiated marrow cells to simulate a borderline remission marrow . one-hour treatments yielded id50 of less than 5 mumol / l of vp-16 for clonogenic units from each cell line ; rare-to-zero clonogenic units survived exposure to 50 to 100 mumol / l . cfu-mix , bfu-e , and cfu-gm were equal in their sensitivity to vp-16 ( id50s25 to 30 mumol / l ) . marrows treated with 75 mumol / l were completely depleted of these colony-forming cells but produced cfu-gm in one-stage long-term marrow cultures ( ltmcs ) . this dose had little adverse effect on the proliferative capacity of marrow stromal progenitors , as measured by cfu-f ( id50 271 mumol / l ) and by the unperturbed development of adherent layers in ltmcs . furthermore , these stromal layers were able to support hematopoiesis as well as controls in co-culture experiments with autologous marrow cells ( two-stage ltmcs ) . in conclusion , doses of vp-16 that cleanse marrow of lymphoma-leukemia cells spare hematopoietic and stromal progenitors as demonstrated by ltmcs . these data favor the use of vp-16 in the clinical autotransplant setting . 
cytogenetic and histologic correlations in malignant lymphoma . although a number of studies have indicated correlations between histologic subtypes of tumors and certain nonrandom chromosome changes , cytogenetic studies of lymphoma are in an early stage compared to those of leukemia . no comprehensive analysis of available data has so far been attempted in the literature either . here we present an analysis of chromosome changes and their correlation with subtypes of lymphoma studied by conventional histology and cell surface markers , as observed in two sets of data : a group of 65 karyotypically abnormal tumors sequentially ascertained and studied by us during the period january 1 , 1984 to april 30 , 1985 , and a larger data set derived by combining our data with those from two published series from the university of minnesota that are comparable to our data . these combined data , which comprise the largest data set on the cytogenetics of lymphomas assembled so far , enabled a comprehensive analysis of correlation between chromosome change and tumor histology and the patterns of chromosome instability in these tumors . we found several significant associations , some previously described and others now recognized , between nonrandom chromosome gains , breaks , translocations , and deletions and histologic subtypes of tumors that characterize lymphomas . the data indicate that finding of chromosome breaks at certain sites ( eg , 8q24 , 14q32 , 18q21 ) is of diagnostic value in dealing with cases of unusual lymphoma . furthermore , nonrandom chromosome breakage exhibited three distinct patterns that reflected three levels of etiologically relevant genetic change . 
ossification centre of the hyoid bone in digeorge syndrome and tetralogy of fallot . the incidence of radiographic visibility of the ossification centre of the body of the hyoid bone in radiographs taken during the first month of life was analysed for 34 autopsied infants : 16 with digeorge syndrome ( dgs ) , 14 with tetralogy of fallot ( tof ) , four with interrupted aortic arch ( iaa ) and a further 13 , surviving infants with non-dgs tof or non-dgs iaa . the incidence of visible hyoid ossification centre ( hoc ) was 75.7 % in a control series of infants with neither congenital heart disease ( chd ) nor dgs . autopsied patients with dgs , tof without dgs , and iaa without dgs showed a significantly low incidence of visible hoc . infants with tof ( and possibly those with iaa ) who did not have dgs and who did not die during infancy showed a normal incidence of visible hoc in radiographs taken during the first post-natal month . radiological visibility of the hoc in the first post-natal month appears useful in the diagnosis of dgs and forms of chd often seen in association with dgs and in assessing prognosis of neonates with certain types of chd . 
ossification centre of the hyoid bone in complete transposition of great vessels , ivemark asplenia syndrome , and down 's syndrome with congenital heart disease : correlation with the humeral capital epiphysis . the incidence of radiographic visibility of the ossification centres of the body of the hyoid bone and of the humeral capital epiphysis in antero-posterior or lateral chest radiographs taken during the first month of life of 63 autopsied infants were analysed . the group comprised patients with down 's syndrome ( ds ) with congenital heart disease , 15 ; complete transposition of the great vessels ( tgv ) , 10 ; ivemark asplenia syndrome ( is ) , 17 ; and a control group of infants with congenital heart disease ( chd ) who had none of the above conditions , nor tetralogy of fallot , interrupted aortic arch , digeorge syndrome or hypoplastic left-heart complex , 31. the incidence of radiographically visible hyoid ossification centre ( hoc ) in the control group was 71 % and of humeral capital epiphysis ( he ) , 16.1 % . autopsied infants with tgv , is or ds with chd showed increased visibility of hoc ( 100 % ) ; the incidence of visible he was increased in neonates with is ( 71.4 % ) and with tgv ( 50 % ) . the differences in the incidence of radiographic visibility of hoc and he in neonates with chd , in this study and in others in the literature , appear to have diagnostic value . 
value of radionuclide oesophageal transit in studies of functional dysphagia . radionuclide oesophageal transit time was evaluated in 70 individuals , divided into three groups : normal individuals , patients with non-organic dysphagia and patients with primary oesophageal motility disorders treated with per-endoscopic forced pneumatic dilatation . in all of them the oesophageal transit time of a bolus of water with 18.5 mbq ( 500 microci ) of 99tmc sulphur colloid was assessed , as was the percentage of residual activity of the bolus in the oesophagus . there was a significant difference in these parameters between the control group and the group with non-organic dysphagia , the diagnostic capacity of this test being 93 % sensitivity , 100 % specificity , 100 % positive predictive value and 90 % negative predictive value , which suggests its inclusion in diagnostic protocols of dysphagias . in patients with primary oesophageal motility disorders , a significant decrease in values of residual activity has been observed after treatment with per-endoscopic forced pneumatic dilatation . 
intraperitoneal toxicity of hytrast : an experimental study . the toxic effects of hytrast were studied on the peritoneum of laboratory rats in order to define the lethal dose and possible causes of toxicity . the results show that hytrast , due to its toxicity , should not be used in any clinical situation where gastrointestinal tract perforation or leakage is a possibility . 
contrast-enhanced computed tomography of the normal and abnormal gallbladder . one hundred and fourteen upper abdominal computed tomography examinations performed before and after intravenous contrast were reviewed . in 48 patients who had no evidence of biliary or pancreatic disease , the mean gallbladder wall attenuation before contrast was 25 + / - 13 hu and after contrast 42 + / - 18 hu , with a wall thickness of 1.9 + / - 0.43 mm . in 14 patients with chronic pancreatitis these values were 24 + / - 10.5 hu , 44 + / - 25 hu and 2.0 + / - 0.54 mm , respectively . in a further group of 15 patients with chronic biliary disease , the values were 34 + / - 15 hu , 53 + / - 18 hu and 2.3 + / - 0.9 mm . the degree of wall enhancement was statistically significant in each group . there was no statistical difference in the attenuation characteristics or wall enhancement between normal patients and those with chronic pancreatitis . patients with chronic biliary disease had a thicker gallbladder wall with higher attenuation before contrast but a similar degree of enhancement . 
evaluation of an anatomical compensation filter for chest radiography . an anatomical compensation filter for improving the radiographic demonstration of the mediastinal and retrocardiac areas of a chest radiograph has been evaluated . the filter , made of a transparent , light-weight lead-plastic material was attached to the x-ray collimator housing . the device reliably improved the visibility of normally underpenetrated areas without producing detectable artefacts , provided the patient was correctly positioned . hilar structures were also slightly better visualised . at the same time there was no statistically significant deterioration in visualisation of peripheral pulmonary vessels or parenchymal structures . rib details and pleural calcifications were less well seen , however , a result that was to be expected because of the x-ray beam hardening . 
a feasibility study of a new approach to clinical radiosensitisation : hypothermia and hyperbaric oxygen in combination with pharmacological vasodilatation . it is proposed that hyperbaric oxygen fails in the clinical situation due to a high proportion ( greater than 33 % ) of hypoxic cells in human tumours . the means of overcoming this problem are reviewed . additional to hyperbaric oxygenation , moderate hypothermia ( 30 degrees c ) to allow redistribution of oxygen in the tumour is proposed . a system of externally controlled intravenous anaesthesia has been developed for the single-subject hyperbaric cylinder . pharmacological vasodilatation is induced in the anaesthetised patient who is then fluid loaded and cooled . initial single-sensitising treatments are advocated . twenty-nine patients with advanced mouth cancer have completed a course of this treatment , of whom five of nine were free of disease after 2 years and 10 of 21 at 1 year , with three intercurrent deaths . fifteen have experienced local failure . this approach would appear to be practical , safe and promising . 
single-dose relative biological effectiveness and toxicity studies under conditions of hypothermia and hyperbaric oxygen . an approach to using hyperbaric oxygen with radiation in a clinical situation has been described in the preceding paper in this issue . to ascertain whether there might be a change in the relative biological effectiveness of radiation on normal mammalian tissue treated under conditions of hypothermia and hyperbaric oxygen , the acute reaction to radiation of pig skin was studied . a single dose enhancement ratio at the erythema reaction level of 1.4 + / - 0.08 was obtained when compared with irradiation at normal body temperature in air . we studied also a series of antioxidant enzymes in rat liver and lung after exposure to hypothermia and hyperbaric oxygen . enzyme changes were such as to combat oxygen toxicity which might develop as a result of the pre-treatment . 
the evaluation of radioiodine therapy for thyroid patients using a fixed-dose regime . ninety-six patients with toxic diffuse goitre ( grave 's disease ) in whom rapid control of disease was necessary were treated with an " ablative " dose of 550 mbq of radioiodine ( 131i ) with the intention of inducing hypothyroidism . outcome was established in 93 cases ( mean follow-up 37 months ) , 45 patients ( 48 % ) becoming hypothyroid , 30 ( 32 % ) remaining euthyroid and 18 ( 19 % ) with persistent thyrotoxicosis requiring further 131i therapy . it is thus apparent that a fixed dose of 550 mbq 131i cannot be considered ablative , with less than 50 % of patients developing hypothyroidism . 
a graphical method to simplify the application of the linear-quadratic dose-effect equation to fractionated radiotherapy . the linear-quadratic ( lq ) dose-effect equation has been shown to be capable of providing a number of new insights into clinical radiotherapy . however , even in the most straightforward application of the formalism , i.e. to fractionated radiotherapy , the level of mathematics required to solve the associated equations could be a significant barrier to the wider application of the lq method . in this paper it is shown that a wide range of problems arising in fractionated radiotherapy are capable of being analysed with the aid of one basic graph . it is further demonstrated that the extrapolated response dose , which forms the conceptual fulcrum of the lq method is an additive quantity , and that the analysis of treatments involving several component parts can be simplified by using this property . the main features of these simplifications are demonstrated using some representative worked examples . 
peritonitis mimicking mechanical duodenal obstruction in an infant . 
imaging of a case of sclerosing panniculitis . 
candida abscess of the pancreas : diagnosis and treatment by computed tomography-guided percutaneous drainage . 
the teenager 's swollen neck . 
on minimisation of toxicity to skin during capacitive radio-frequency hyperthermia . 
physical and biological dosimetry at the barium sulphate-culture medium interface . 
measurement of lung water using nuclear magnetic resonance imaging [ letter ] 
carotid endarterectomy : a mid-atlantic view [ editorial ] 
carotid endarterectomy in great britain and ireland . a survey of the practice of carotid surgery by 245 vascular and neurological surgeons in great britain and ireland was conducted with a 96 per cent response . ninety-six surgeons ( 41 per cent ) performed at least one carotid endarterectomy in 1984 and a total of 1374 such operations were carried out in that year . the indications for carotid endarterectomy in order of frequency were transient ischaemic attack , minor stroke and stroke . operation was hardly ever undertaken for asymptomatic carotid bruit . eighty-six per cent of surgeons who performed carotid endarterectomy generally assessed patients in the first instance using techniques less invasive than conventional angiography , principally doppler ultrasonography or digital subtraction angiography . nevertheless , conventional angiograms were usually performed before surgery by 89 per cent of surgeons . almost all surgeons operated only under general anaesthesia , while opinion on the use of an intraluminal shunt during carotid endarterectomy was divided . despite an increase in the number of carotid endarterectomies in recent years , this operation is currently performed nineteen times less frequently in great britain and ireland than in the usa . the reasons for this are explored and certain controversies surrounding carotid endarterectomy are discussed . 
results of surgical treatment for iliofemoral venous thrombosis . the long-term results after venous thrombectomy combined with a temporary arteriovenous fistula were evaluated in 19 patients . clinical status , isotope phlebography , venous occlusion plethysmography and foot volumetry were performed after a mean follow-up time of 38 months ( range 13-75 ) . the primary operation was successful in 17 of the 19 patients ; the 2 remaining had chronic occlusions of their iliac veins . at the time of closure of the arteriovenous fistula , i.e. 3 months after thrombectomy , 14 patients had a patent iliac vein . at follow-up eight patients were considered to have a patent iliac vein , eight had a partial restitution and three had an occluded iliac vein . the group as a whole had no impaired venous emptying of the leg , but the small group of patients with occlusion at follow-up according to isotope phlebography seemed to have an impaired venous emptying . foot volumetry showed only minor signs of valvular insufficiency , mainly in limbs with distal extension of the initial thrombus or only partial restitution of venous patency . a good long-term result can be expected after venous thrombectomy with a temporary arteriovenous fistula particularly in younger patients where the thrombosis is limited to the iliofemoral segment . this emphasizes the importance of early operation before distal extension of the thrombus occurs . 
secondary aorto-enteric fistulae : towards a more conservative approach . eight cases of secondary aorto-enteric fistulae are presented occurring 9 months to 10 years after aortic dacron grafting . in four patients there was a simple fistula between the anastomosis and the adherent duodenum , three patients had clinically infected grafts and one had a false aneurysm that had ruptured into the bowel . the four patients with a simple fistula had direct suture repair of the defect . one developed a recurrent fistula at 2 months and was successfully repaired again by direct suture . all four patients remain well at a follow-up of 1-5 years . the other four patients had the grafts excised , with local regrafting in two cases , both patients remaining well at follow-up . one patient had an axillo-bifemoral graft , but died at 30 days of overwhelming sepsis . the final patient , a girl with diffuse aneurysmal disease , had the aortic stump oversewn but no reconstruction . she died at 9 months of aortic stump disruption . these results suggest that a more conservative approach to the operative correction of secondary fistulae should be used wherever possible . 
direct arterial pressure measurements during operation to assess adequacy of arterial reconstruction in lower limb ischaemia . over a 3-year period 164 patients undergoing arterial reconstruction for lower limb ischaemia had direct arterial pressure measurements during the operation . the arterial pressure was measured by direct puncture of the vessel with a no . 23 gauge needle connected , via a cannula , to a pressure transducer . the pressure was measured proximal and distal to anastomoses or endarterectomies , and note was made both of the absolute pressure and waveform . at 3 months 95 per cent were patent . in nine patients ( 5 per cent ) , there was a significant fall of pressure across the reconstructed artery and in eight of these procedures were carried out to correct the fault . the technique of direct arterial pressure measurement is quick and easy to perform , with equipment that is used routinely for monitoring by the anaesthetist . there has been no evidence of damage due to the arterial puncture itself . it provides a simple , objective assessment of adequacy of an arterial reconstruction and may lead to the early correction of otherwise unrecognized faults , and thus prevent early graft occlusion . 
oxygen inhalation induced changes in the skin as measured by transcutaneous oxymetry . transcutaneous oxygen ( ptco2 ) measurements were made on 46 patients with severe ischaemia of the lower limbs and on 17 age-matched controls . values breathing air , 100 per cent oxygen and the rate of change of ptco2 breathing oxygen were recorded . of 29 below knee amputations there were 4 failures ; 16 had ptco2 values less than 35 mmhg , but 12 of the 16 healed . when the rate of change of ptco2 during oxygen inhalation was greater than 9 mm hg / min all below knee amputations healed ; all 4 failures were found to have values less than 9 mm hg / min while only one patient with a value of less than 9 mm hg / min healed a below knee amputation . this study shows that low ptco2 values are a poor indication of healing potential . a more reliable index of skin viability is provided by the dynamic measurement of ptco2 changes during oxygen inhalation . the addition of an oxygen inhalation test , when making ptco2 measurements , greatly enhances the applicability of the technique in the assessment of the oxygen supply to the skin . 
ruptured azygos vein due to blunt chest trauma . 
venous muscle pump function in patients with primary lymphoedema : assessment by ambulatory strain gauge plethysmography . the musculovenous pump function was assessed by ambulatory strain gauge plethysmography in 11 patients with primary lymphoedema . the venous function was within the normal range regarding both venous reflux and expelled volume . the values were compared with ten patients with chronic venous insufficiency and oedema . the values for venous function were clearly abnormal for the patients with venous insufficiency and different from those with primary lymphoedema . ambulatory strain gauge plethysmography may be a useful non-invasive method in distinguishing between oedema of lymphatic or venous origin . 
indications for thoracotomy in stab injuries of the chest : a prospective study of 543 patients . this is a prospective study of 543 patients with stab wounds of the chest treated in a 15 month period . four hundred and sixty-seven patients ( 86 per cent ) were selected for conservative treatment with no mortality . of the 76 patients in the operatively treated group 68 were operated on in the operating theatre with a mortality of 17 per cent , while the remaining eight had a thoracotomy in the resuscitation room with a mortality of 87.5 per cent . indications for early operation would appear to be the presence of signs of cardiac or major vascular injury ( i.e. tamponade , profuse bleeding , an absent or diminished peripheral pulse , and shock not responding to aggressive resuscitation ) . a cautious digital exploration of the chest wound may help identify these injuries by obtaining information about the knife tract ( towards or away from the heart or major vessels ) . the presence of shock on admission should not be an absolute indication for operation . half the 156 patients with shock on admission were treated conservatively with no mortality . the presence of a wound over the precordium is not in itself an absolute indication for surgery . seventy-two such patients , including 14 with shock , were successfully treated non-operatively . massive air leaks are usually self-controlled and none of the 24 such cases required operation . the amount or rate of blood loss via the thoracotomy tube is not a reliable index of the severity of the injury and it should not be a sole criterion for the selection of the type of treatment . 
admission guidelines for head injuries : variance with clinical practice in accident and emergency units in the uk . guidelines for the initial management of head injuries were formulated by neurosurgeons and a multidisciplinary group of clinicians and administrators attending a seminar convened by the uk department of health and social security ( dhss ) . analysis of data collected previously by the royal college of radiologists in nine accident and emergency units in the uk shows that admitting practice varied between centres and was very different from that recommended subsequently in the guidelines . only 49 per cent ( range 22 to 71 per cent ) of patients who had skull x-rays and possessed symptoms and signs warranting admission were admitted to hospital and 14 per cent ( range 1 to 20 per cent ) of those without appropriate symptoms and signs were admitted . rates of admission for patients with a history of unconsciousness , which according to the guidelines is not a criterion for admission , were up to ten-fold higher than for comparable patients with no such history . implementation of the guidelines could have a substantial effect on clinical practice and could reduce admissions of patients who had skull x-rays by up to 46 per cent . 
carcinoma of the thyroid : differential behaviour in solitary and multinodular tumours . one hundred and sixty-three cases of thyroid carcinoma were treated between 1979 and 1983. the cancers were classified as solitary nodules or carcinomas in multinodular goitres according to their clinical presentation . analysis revealed a significantly higher incidence of t0 / t1 in the solitary nodular carcinoma group ( p less than 0.001 ) and a lower incidence of metastatic disease ( p less than 0.05 ) compared with multinodular carcinoma . survival for the t0 / t1 subgroup of solitary nodular carcinoma was significantly better compared with the same subgroup of multinodular carcinoma ( p less than 0.05 ) . 
relapse of graves ' disease half a century on . 
treatment of parotid gland tumours by conservative parotidectomy . 
insulin infusion ( gik ) in the treatment of type 2 ( non-insulin dependent ) diabetes during the perioperative period . the effect of surgery on intermediary metabolism has been studied in six non-diabetic subjects , eleven type 2 diabetic subjects untreated during surgery , and nine type 2 diabetic subjects treated by glucose-insulin-potassium ( gik ) infusion during surgery . plasma glucose results were studied in all subjects and other metabolites whenever possible . initial glucose concentrations were similar in both groups of diabetic subjects . four hours postoperatively the plasma glucose was lower in the gik group ( 10.1 + / - 1.0 mmol / l ) than in untreated subjects ( 14.2 + / - 1.3 mmol / l , p less than 0.05 ) but still far above levels found in non-diabetic subjects . lactate concentration was higher in the gik treated diabetic subjects than in both non-gik treated diabetic and non-diabetic patients 15 min after induction ( 1.32 + / - 0.07 compared with 0.93 + / - 0.09 and 0.89 + / - 0.08 mmol / l , p less than 0.02 ) . non-esterified fatty acid ( nefa ) was lower one hour postoperatively in the gik treated diabetic group than in the non-gik diabetic patients ( 0.47 + / - 0.09 mmol / l compared with 1.09 + / - 0.22 mmol / l , p less than 0.05 ) . all nefa concentrations were lower in gik treated diabetic subjects than in non-diabetic subjects for the time of insulin infusion . blood 3-hydroxybutyrate was also lower in gik treated ( 0.04 + / - 0.02 ) than in untreated diabetic subjects 4 h postoperatively ( 0.25 + / - 0.07 mmol / l , p less than 0.05 ) . the levels of non-esterified fatty acid and 3-hydroxybutyrate found in the untreated diabetic did not differ from those found in non-diabetic controls . plasma cortisol levels had risen in all groups 4 h postoperatively ( p less than 0.01 ) . 
repair of a middle hepatic vein injury . 
refashioning of phallus stumps and phalloplasty in the treatment of carcinoma of the penis . the surgical management of 41 patients with carcinoma of the penis is presented . conservative surgery in the form of a circumcision or a glansplasty was done in eight patients with one recurrence . circumcision as an adequate procedure is advocated for lesions near the apex of the preputial sac permitting a 2 cm clearance ; glansplasty after local excision requires further evaluation . the details of technique of lengthening and refashioning of the residual phallic stump after partial amputation in a further 20 patients is described using a technique which leaves a satisfactory penile stump in patients who would normally be candidates for a total amputation . in a third group of patients requiring a total amputation of penis , reconstruction was done in two stages using scrotal flaps in four with satisfactory results . the reconstructed phallus was adequate as a urinary conduit but was unsuitable for sexual function . a one stage procedure involving covering of the urethra with scrotal flaps appears an attractive alternative to the staged procedure . conventional multistage reconstructions are not recommended . 
morbidity , mortality and local recurrence following regional node dissection for melanoma . eighty-six patients who underwent regional node dissection ( rnd ) for melanoma were reviewed with respect to short and long term postoperative morbidity , mortality and local recurrence rate . twenty-eight per cent of dissections were prophylactic and seventy-two per cent therapeutic . there were significant wound related complications which tended to delay hospital discharge , in particular following axillary and groin dissections , but symptomatic long term complications were infrequent . the postoperative mortality rate was 1.2 per cent . local recurrence in rnd scars was particularly common in the neck ( 33 per cent ) . rnd for melanoma is a safe procedure , with significant short term but relatively little long term morbidity . both recurrence and morbidity should be borne in mind when considering patients for prophylactic rnd . surgeons should be prepared to use axial or myocutaneous flaps where extensive skin resection is necessary . a controlled trial of prophylactic antibiotics would be useful to try to reduce the incidence of wound infection . 
enteric bacteriology , absorption , morphology and emptying after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis . the aim was to determine whether changes in enteric bacteriology , absorption , morphology , and emptying occur after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis for ulcerative colitis , and to relate any changes to the clinical result . twenty patients were studied 26 + / - 2 months ( mean + / - s.e.m. ) after operation . eight patients had a good result , six a poor result , and six a history of recurrent pouch ileitis . anaerobic and aerobic overgrowth occurred in the jejunum of patients with a poor result , but not in those with a good result or with pouch ileitis . in contrast , ileal pouch bacterial overgrowth occurred in all patients regardless of the clinical result . patients with jejunal overgrowth had increased 24 h stool volume and stool nitrogen , but other patients did not . the larger the stool volume , the greater the anaerobic overgrowth . pouch biopsies showed chronic inflammation in all patients , while 45 per cent had colonic metaplasia . neither the inflammation nor the metaplasia correlated with the clinical result , nor did the clinical result correlate with the efficiency of pouch emptying . in conclusion , jejunal bacterial overgrowth after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis was associated with an increased stool output , azotorrhoea , and a poor clinical result . a distinguishing bacterial , absorptive , morphological , or emptying abnormality was not found in patients with a history of recurrent pouch ileitis . 
internal sphincterotomy for chronic anal fissure : long term effects on anal pressure . in 28 patients with chronic anal fissure the median anal canal pressure was 98 cmh2o , significantly higher than in control subjects ( p less than 0.001 ) . after lateral internal sphincterotomy the pressure dropped by 50 per cent to normal levels and the fissures healed with no change in pressure over 12 months . ten patients also had normal anal pressures and were asymptomatic 4-6 years after internal sphincterotomy . adequate internal sphincterotomy appears to reduce permanently anal canal pressure , suggesting that abnormal activity in the sphincter contributes to the development of a fissure . 
abolition of postprandial alkaline tide after vagotomy and its use as a screening test in the assessment of vagotomy . assessment of completeness of vagotomy has always been an irksome and time-consuming affair . the commonly employed test of insulin-induced hypoglycaemia ( hollander ) is tedious , risky and associated with practical limitations and theoretical objections , which have resulted in its being replaced by the modified sham feed technique in some centres . the postprandial alkaline tide is attributed to hco3- release consequent to h+ secretion . any procedure which reduces acid secretion is expected to affect the postprandial urinary ph . this study was performed to evaluate the effect of vagotomy on the postprandial alkaline tide by measuring prevagotomy and postvagotomy fasting and postprandial urinary ph . the results show that postprandial urinary ph falls after vagotomy and this method may be used to assess the completeness of vagotomy . the proposed test is convenient and may be used as a screening method in the assessment of vagotomy and other acid reducing operative procedures , if further validated , by comparison with already established tests . 
oesophageal balloon dilatation in a previously perforated malignant stricture . 
giant villous adenoma of the duodenum . 
round worm pancreatitis : endoscopic worm removal without papillotomy . 
primary carcinoma of stensen 's duct . 
appendicitis caused by an intrauterine contraceptive device . 
spontaneous perforation of the common bile duct in infancy . 
multiple myeloma presenting as intractable gastric retention in a patient with a previous gastroenterostomy . 
mondor 's disease secondary to breast abscess in a male . 
metastases from hepatocellular carcinoma in sclerosed oesophageal varices in cirrhotic patients . 
anorectal agenesis . neonatal correction by a minimal mobilization inversion proctodaeoplasty . 
british association of endocrine surgeons . annual meeting . london , 30 may 1986. abstracts . 
locally metastatic melanoma [ letter ] 
pre-operative bile salts [ letter ] 
ileal pouches [ letter ] 
gastroplasty and gastric emptying [ letter ] 
peroperative cholangiography [ letter ] 
impact of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty [ letter ] 
use of a muscle graft for unhealed perineal sinus . 
limited haemorrhoidectomy in the treatment of acute strangulated haemorrhoids . 
use of the small bowel patch in reconstructive procedures involving irradiated tissue . 
crohn 's disease precipitating a spinal extradural abscess and paraplegia . 
sigmoid volvulus in association with crohn 's disease of the colon . 
escaped faecolith after appendicectomy . 
chronic lymphadenopathy caused by penicillium marneffei : a condition mimicking tuberculous lymphadenopathy . 
peripheral gangrene associated with beta-blockade . 
flap-valve theory of anorectal continence . the most important component of continence is considered to be the puborectalis muscle which is reputed to function by creating a flap-valve mechanism in which the anterior rectal wall occludes the upper and canal . to elucidate this , anal and rectal pressures were measured simultaneously together with external anal sphincter and puborectalis electromyogram and synchronously superimposed on an image intensifier displaying the rectum outlined by barium . we studied 13 subjects at rest , and during a valsalva manoeuvre . there was a significant rise in rectal and sphincter pressures ( p less than 0.005 ) and external sphincter and puborectalis emg ( p less than 0.005 ) . in a further 13 patients valsalva manoeuvres were performed during proctography alone . in all subjects the anterior rectal wall was always clearly separated from the upper sphincter despite a maximal effort and a rectum filled with sufficient liquid to produce a desire to defaecate . these findings question the flap-valve theory of continence and suggest the puborectalis functions by sphincteric occlusion of the anal canal . 
increased dietary calcium and small bowel resection have opposite effects on colonic cell turnover . oral supplements of calcium reduce the mitogenic effects of fatty acids and bile acids on large bowel mucosa . the cytokinetic effects of intraluminal calcium were tested in normal and adapting colonic epithelium . male sprague-dawley rats ( n = 60 ) weighting 356.7 + / - 24.9 g were submitted to either an 80 per cent jejuno-ileal resection or simple transection and resuture of the jejunum . within each group , half the animals had 24 g / l calcium lactate added to the drinking water . seven weeks postoperatively crypt cell production rate ( ccpr ) was determined in the lower descending colon . among controls with transection ccpr was 4.49 cells crypt-1 h-1 ; calcium supplements reduced this figure by 26 per cent ( p less than 0.05 ) . as expected jejuno-ileal resection increased ccpr ( by 51-61 per cent ) , but again calcium reduced this response by 31 per cent ( p less than 0.02 ) . increased dietary levels of calcium thus inhibit colonic cell turnover and blunt the adaptive response to massive enterectomy , conceivably by binding tropic factors such as bile acids . 
surgical research society abstracts . 
occult hepatic metastases in colorectal carcinoma [ letter ] 
liver metastases and energy expenditure [ letter ] 
surgery for gastric cancer [ letter ] 
priapism and thalassaemia intermedia [ letter ] 
surgical management of haemorrhage from peptic ulceration [ editorial ] 
endoscopic treatment of inoperable colorectal cancers with the nd yag laser . seventeen patients with cancers of the rectum or distal sigmoid and considered inoperable because of old age , severe concomitant disease or advanced stage of malignancy , were treated endoscopically with the nd yag laser . symptoms included rectal bleeding , obstruction , diarrhoea and incontinence . significant improvement was achieved in 15 ( 88 per cent ) and there were no complications . the procedure was carried out with simple bowel preparation and minimal sedation and , for otherwise fit individuals , the mean total hospital stay was 6.8 days , with day case therapy sometimes possible . three patients required further therapy for recurrent symptoms 6-8 weeks after treatment . fourteen patients died 1-39 weeks after therapy ( mean survival 15 weeks ) . three are alive and free of bowel symptoms after 39-54 weeks . this technique is the only non-surgical therapy that can be used safely for lesions above the peritoneal reflection and provides palliation at least as good as electrocoagulation , cryotherapy and radiotherapy with minimal upset to these seriously ill patients . 
selective cefuroxime prophylaxis following colorectal surgery based on intra-operative dipslide culture . the concept of a very limited effective period for prophylactic antibiotic action was challenged in a prospective , controlled and randomized study featuring a simplified method for assessing the degree of contamination in the operative field during colorectal surgery . the 226 patients were given 1 g metronidazole iv on induction of anaesthesia and 12 h postoperatively . following standardized saline irrigation of the abdominal cavity , a uriculture dipslide was dipped in the residual fluid just before abdominal closure . the dipslide was incubated for 18 h , and colony counts of coliforms and staphylococcus aureus were made . the number of colony-forming units ( cfu ) was classified as 0 , 1-4 or greater than or equal to 5 ( n = 123 , 33 and 70 ) . the patients with cfu greater than or equal to 5 were randomized to receive cefuroxime ( 1.5 g iv / 8 h for 2 days ) or no more antibiotics . in the patients given only metronidazole , the incidence of postoperative infections rose with the colony counts ( 5.7 , 9.1 and 41.2 per cent with cfu 0 , 1-4 and greater than or equal to 5 ) . addition of cefuroxime reduced the 41.2 per cent infection rate to 8.3 per cent ( p = 0.003 ) . the method thus identified a high-risk group in which a short postoperative course of cefuroxime significantly lowered the rate of sepsis . 
combined topical povidone-iodine and systemic antibiotics in postappendicectomy wound sepsis . three hundred and fifteen patients with appendicitis were randomized into two groups . one group received pre-operative systemic gentamicin and metronidazole while the other group received 1 per cent topical povidone-iodine solution in addition to the antibiotics . for early appendicitis including normal and acutely inflamed appendices , only one dose of antibiotics was used . the postoperative wound sepsis was very low in both groups of patients and there was no statistical difference between them . for late appendicitis including gangrenous and perforated appendices , the antibiotics were continued for 7 days . eight out of 51 patients who had the topical agent developed wound sepsis compared with one out of 52 patients who received no topical agent . this difference is statistically significant ( p = 0.03 ) . all wound infections presented within 2 weeks of operation and were deep . povidone-iodine , 1 per cent , adversely affects the wound infection rate in late appendicitis and should not be used . 
diagnostic accuracy of double-contrast enema and rectosigmoidoscopy in connection with faecal occult blood testing for the detection of rectosigmoid neoplasms . four hundred and fifty-eight consecutive subjects with a positive faecal guaiac test when screened for early detection of colorectal neoplasms were investigated with double-contrast enemas and rectosigmoidoscopy ( 60 cm ) . the results of these two methods were compared . the radiologists and endoscopists were unaware of the result of each others ' examination at the time of their own investigation . altogether ten subjects with carcinoma in the rectosigmoid area were found . the radiologists and endoscopists each overlooked four of these ten carcinomas and only four of the carcinomas were diagnosed with both methods . fifty-six of one hundred and seven adenomas were 1 cm or larger in diameter and located in the rectum or the sigmoid colon . thirteen of the fifty-six adenomas were missed by double contrast enema and ten by endoscopy and only thirty-three adenomas were diagnosed with both methods . neoplasms in the rectum and the sigmoid colon are sometimes difficult to diagnose with both radiology and endoscopy . rectosigmoidoscopy ( 60 cm ) should therefore be used as a complement to double contrast enemas if this method is chosen for investigation of a patient with rectal bleeding . 
in vitro binding and in vivo localization in colorectal cancer of a high affinity monoclonal antibody to carcinoembryonic antigen . a monoclonal antibody to carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) ( c46 ) was tested for its binding properties to colorectal cancer cells in vitro and for its localization in patients with primary colorectal cancer . strong binding was found to disaggregated primary colorectal cancer cells , with a median of 66 per cent of the cells in the tumour gate binding the antibody . there was a median binding ratio of 8.6 : 1 compared with normal immunoglobulin . the pattern of immunohistological staining was typical of that for an antibody to cea . all seven patients with primary colorectal cancer imaged pre-operatively using 111in-labelled c46 gave positive images . the median tumour : non-tumour antibody uptake ratio from resected specimens ( n = 8 ) was 5.8 : 1. ( 1.7-7.6 : 1 ) . eight of 11 sites of secondary colorectal cancer gave positive images . the high affinity and good tumour localization of c46 have improved clinical imaging and increase the possibilities for targetting of antitumour agents . 
effect of perioperative blood transfusion on recurrence of colorectal cancer . the aim of the present study was to examine the outcome of 517 patients undergoing curative surgery for colonic and rectal cancer , and to compare the recurrence and mortality rates in transfused and non-transfused groups of patients . the two groups were evenly matched for age , sex , dukes ' stage and histological differentiation . there were significantly more rectal tumours in the transfused group ( p less than 0.01 ) , but the distribution of colonic lesions did not differ . life table analysis revealed that the transfused patients had a 20 per cent greater probability of recurrence at 5 years ( p less than 0.005 ) and there were 16 per cent more cancer related deaths ( p less than 0.01 ) . even when all rectal cancers were excluded , a similar trend was seen for the colonic lesions : a 24 per cent greater probability of recurrence at 5 years ( p less than 0.025 ) and 15 per cent more cancer related deaths ( p less than 0.02 ) . we conclude that blood transfusion may be associated with increased mortality and recurrence in patients undergoing curative surgery for colorectal cancer . 
re-routing procedures for ectopic anus in the adult . four cases of adult ectopic anus are described . all patients presented with incontinence ; in two there was a history of constipation . electromyography correctly identified the site of the anal sphincters preoperatively . the anorectum was mobilized and re-routed through the sphincter ring with repair of the perineal body . there was improvement in anal canal pressures on voluntary contraction after operation in all three cases studied . continence was restored in three patients but results were poor in one patient because of persistent constipation . severe constipation may be a contra-indication to this procedure . 
surgical treatment of perineal hidradenitis suppurativa with special reference to recognition of the perianal form . severe cases of hidradenitis suppurativa affecting the perineum and gluteal regions may be treated successfully by ' deroofing ' the sinus and fistulae tracts . these lie in the dermis and are partly epithelialized by cells from involved hair follicles and disrupted sweat glands . careful preservation of the floor of the tracts leads to re-epithelialization with disease-free skin . more radical surgery is unnecessary and the problems of covering widely excised areas in this heavily contaminated region are avoided . by spreading the treatment over several operating sessions and hospital admissions , postoperative discomfort and in-patient nursing requirements are minimized . the technique of deroofing is described and the treatment of three severe cases is discussed . one patient illustrated the recognized complication of malignant change occurring in long-standing untreated disease . a fourth case illustrates the difficulties in diagnosing perianal hidradenitis suppurativa and literature cited suggests it to be a more common condition than once thought and a diagnosis frequently missed . 
surgical management of severe intractable postvagotomy diarrhoea . experience with the surgical management of 23 patients with postvagotomy diarrhoea is outlined . the most common pre-operative abnormalities are rapid gastric emptying ( 14 / 23 ) and fast small bowel transit ( 23 / 23 ) . three patients were found to have steatorrhoea due to organic disease . peptic ulcer surgery performed at a young age ( means = 29 years , range 21-37 ) appears to be the only identifiable risk factor . the results of medical treatment with bile salt binding agents were disappointing in the long term . in 10 out of 13 patients treated with antiperistaltic segments , the procedure had to be reversed because of episodes of severe postprandial colic , intestinal obstruction and bacterial overgrowth . a good result with relief of the explosive diarrhoea was obtained by the distal onlay reversed ileal graft in six out of seven patients . this procedure creates a passive non-propulsive segment , and has no undesirable sequelae . it should be considered in those patients in whom the diarrhoea is not controlled by conservative measures . 
management of acute cholangitis and the impact of endoscopic sphincterotomy . ninety-four patients admitted to leicester hospitals with acute cholangitis since 1977 were reviewed to coincide with the availability of endoscopic sphincterotomy ( es ) . thirty-four were men and sixty were women , their mean age was 69.7 years and the median hospital stay was 20 days . there were 15 deaths ( 16 per cent ) by 30 days in patients with significantly lower initial serum albumin levels ( p less than 0.005 ) and significantly higher serum urea levels ( p less than 0.05 ) than survivors . eighty-two patients had common bile duct ( cbd ) calculi of whom 71 underwent early decompression of the biliary tree either surgically ( 28 ) or by es ( 43 ) . early surgical decompression was associated with a significantly higher 30 day mortality ( 6 / 28 ) than early es ( 2 / 43 ) ( p less than 0.02 ) despite the fact that patients undergoing early es were significantly older ( p less than 0.02 ) and had significantly more medical risk factors ( p less than 0.05 ) . of the 43 patients undergoing early es 7 had had a previous cholecystectomy , 13 underwent subsequent elective cholecystectomy with no mortality and the remaining 23 had the gallbladder left in situ because of advanced age ( mean age 79 years ) and frailty . only 2 of the 23 have since required cholecystectomy . we suggest that patients with acute cholangitis who do not rapidly respond to conservative treatment should undergo early es with early surgery reserved for those who do not improve following es . elective cholecystectomy following successful es can often be avoided in the elderly and frail . 
incisional herniae following median sternotomy incisions : their incidence and aetiology . a retrospective study was carried out of all patients undergoing cardiothoracic surgery through a median sternotomy incision under the care of a single surgical firm over an 8 year period in order to assess the incidence and aetiology of incisional epigastric herniae . of the 582 procedures carried out , follow-up information was obtained in 475 ( 81.6 per cent ) of which 20 ( 4.2 per cent ) had developed incisional herniae ( 70 per cent of these within 3 months ) . seven ( 35 per cent ) of the herniae were symptomatic and required repair . the main predisposing factors were the male sex , the nature of surgery carried out ( notably aortic valve replacement ) , obesity and the presence of postoperative complications of wound infection and left ventricular failure . herniae were not found in those patients having wound closure using non-absorbable sutures . 
depression and social stress among patients with benign breast disease . one hundred and forty women referred to the southampton breast clinic had a psychiatric interview at home , before their first clinic attendance . the 107 subsequently diagnosed as having benign breast disease had a high rate of depressive symptomatology in comparison with women in published surveys of the general population . in the year before referral , 25 ( 23 per cent ) had had definite depression and 19 ( 18 per cent ) had had borderline depression : at the time of interview 9 ( 8 per cent ) had major depression and 22 ( 21 per cent ) had minor depression . depression in these patients was associated with recent life events and social difficulties . mood disturbance and psychosocial stress may lead to medical consultation about benign breast disease , or even contribute to its development . severe depression was less common in the 33 patients who turned out to have breast cancer , though more of them had minor depression , and they reported fewer recent life events . 
urinary incontinence after stroke [ editorial ] [ published erratum appears in br med j ( clin res ed ) 1986 dec 13 ; 293 ( 6561 ) 1524 ] 
optimising antiemesis in cancer chemotherapy : efficacy of continuous versus intermittent infusion of high dose metoclopramide in emesis induced by cisplatin [ published erratum appears in br med j ( clin res ed ) 1986 dec 13 ; 293 ( 6561 ) : 1540 ] thirty three untreated patients being given cisplatin received metoclopramide ( 7 mg / kg ) for antiemesis by either continuous or intermittent infusion in a random order . each patient received intravenous dexamethasone in addition . high pressure liquid chromatography was used to measure plasma concentrations of metoclopramide . the two regimens were evaluated for antiemetic efficacy and the incidence of side effects . the intermittent metoclopramide regimen resulted in peak and trough plasma concentrations of metoclopramide with accumulation at eight hours , while the loading dose and continuous infusion resulted in mean plasma concentrations greater than 0.85 micrograms / ml ( 2.8 mumol / l ) throughout the eight hour period . the continuous infusion was associated with a significant improvement in nausea and vomiting and reduction in diarrhoea . major control of emesis ( two episodes or fewer ) was achieved in 27 patients receiving continuous metoclopramide compared with 18 receiving intermittent metoclopramide . 
infarction in the territory of the anterior choroidal artery . a clinical and computerized tomographic study of 16 cases . sixteen cases of the anterior choroidal artery syndrome are reported . in its completed form , this rare syndrome combines the triad of hemiplegia , hemianaesthesia , and homonymous hemianopia . ct examination confirms the diagnosis by revealing an area of reduced density situated in the posterior limb of the internal capsule , sparing the thalamus medially and encroaching upon the tip of the globus pallidus laterally , and corresponding to the distribution of the anterior choroidal artery . incomplete forms of the syndrome are more frequent . left-sided spatial neglect may accompany right-sided lesions , as may slight disorders of speech in left-sided lesions . clinical-anatomical correlations are discussed . 
electrophysiological differences between subtypes of dementia . the distinction between subtypes of dementia , in particular between ' cortical ' and ' subcortical ' dementias , is controversial . in order to study this we recorded the long latency auditory evoked potential in demented patients with clinically definite huntington 's disease , parkinson 's disease , and alzheimer 's disease . we compared the peak latencies of the components of this response both between these groups and with normal subjects , controlling for the effects of age . we found highly significant electrophysiological differences not only between the subcortical group ( combined patients with huntington 's and parkinson 's disease ) and the cortical group ( patients with alzheimer 's disease ) , but also within the subcortical group itself . using the pattern of electrophysiological response alone , we were able to classify correctly most of our patients using a logistic regression model . these results support the notion that there are distinguishable subtypes of dementia . 
an acute axonal form of guillain-barre polyneuropathy . five patients with a clinical diagnosis of acute guillain-barre polyneuropathy ( gbp ) had electrically inexcitable motor nerves . all were quadriplegic . one patient died and 3 of the 4 survivors showed poor recovery . autopsy studies on the patient who died showed severe axonal degeneration in nerve roots and distal nerves without inflammation or demyelination . electrophysiological studies in these patients suggested that the predominant process was axonal degeneration . these cases may represent a separate clinicopathological entity , and constitute a variant of gbp characterized by an acute axonal neuropathy . 
the effects of lateralized frontal lesions on mood regulation . a group of vietnam veterans with penetrating brain wounds to the orbitofrontal , dorsofrontal , and nonfrontal cortex were compared with a stratified control group of self-report and observed measures of mood state and cognition . in particular , hypotheses regarding the regulation of anxiety by frontal cortical mechanisms were evaluated . results indicated that patients with right orbitofrontal lesions were prone to abnormally increased ' edginess ' / anxiety and depression , whereas patients with left dorsofrontal lesions were prone to abnormally increased anger / hostility . a working model of mood state regulation is presented which represents the thesis that mood sensations are subject to numerous cognitive and biological influences that result in a variety of expressions of a particular mood disorder . 
hypotonia : an erroneous clinical concept ? muscle tone , if defined as the resistance felt during passive movement of an extremity , is generally explained by the appearance of stretch reflexes . consequently , hypotonia would be caused by a decrease or disappearance of these reflexes . this notion has never been challenged by experiments that reproduce the clinical situation . in this study two clinical tests , passive extension and flexion movements at the knee joint and a free fall of the lower leg with gravity , were applied to 72 control legs and 35 ' hypotonic ' legs . emg activity was measured in the quadriceps muscle . despite special care to obtain relaxation in the subjects , the majority of control legs showed voluntary emg activity on passive movement . during free fall , long-latency reflexes were present in a minority of normal subjects , but the velocity of falling in these legs was within the range obtained in the legs without any emg spikes . if the fall time was prolonged beyond the upper limit of relaxed legs , this was the result of voluntary activity , confirmed by emg measurements . therefore , long-latency stretch reflexes play no role in the clinical assessment of ' normal tone ' . this conclusion was further supported by the observation that ' hypotonic ' legs did not fall faster than relaxed control legs . if patient 's legs feel flaccid this is the result of weakness preventing voluntary activity . passive movements during the clinical examination are of great value , but only to detect spasticity or rigidity . 
movement preparation in parkinson 's disease . the use of advance information . the effects of advance information on movement planning in parkinsonism were assessed by means of movement precuing . using this technique , the response latencies of identical sets of movements were compared across conditions in which the degree and type of advance movement information were manipulated . specifically , prior information concerning three movement dimensions ( the direction and extent of forthcoming movements , as well as the limb to be used ) was or was not provided . eight patients with parkinson 's disease and 8 neurologically normal age-matched controls served as subjects . the experiment showed that the elevated reaction times of the parkinsonian subjects are not primarily caused by delays in response selection . estimates of specification times for each of the three dimensions showed only a modest slowing in parkinsonians . the specification of those movement dimensions unknown before the response signal appears to occur serially , and can occur in a variable order as in normals . since parkinsonians can initiate movements with shorter latencies when partial or complete information is available , albeit more slowly than normals , we conclude that response selection and specification processes preceding rapid discrete movements are relatively unaffected by the disease . the overall slowness in movement initiation in parkinsonians as compared with normals may in part be caused by excessive delays in motor time and , in general , to those ' input ' and / or ' output ' processes which are unaffected by advance information . 
proprioception with the proximal interphalangeal joint of the index finger . evidence for a movement sense without a static-position sense . proprioceptive ability with the proximal interphalangeal ( pip ) and metacarpophalangeal ( mcp ) joints of the index finger in human subjects was examined using a method that could assess static-position sense independently of movement sense ( clark et al . , 1985 ) . the similarity in location and function of these joints would suggest similar proprioceptive mechanisms , but proprioceptive ability was found to be quite different for the two joints . the method of distinguishing a static-position sense from a movement sense was based on whether a subject 's ability to detect a small change in joint position was impaired when the rate of rotation was progressively reduced . an awareness of static-position should not depend on the rate at which a joint is placed into position . however , if subjects use movement signals to detect changes in joint position , slowing the rate of displacement should reduce the intensity of these signals and make the displacements more difficult to detect . this method indicated a static-position sense with the mcp joint but only a movement sense with the pip joint . it was confirmed that sensory input from regions of skin not stretched or deformed by rotation of the joint can influence proprioceptive sensibility with the fingers . anaesthesia of the tip of the index finger or of the thumb blunted subject 's perceptions of movement of the pip joint of the index finger . however , anaesthesia of the pip joint itself had no observable effect on the ability to sense movement of the joint . 
changes in sensorimotor function associated with the degree of bradykinesia of parkinson 's disease . changes in coordinated eye and hand movements associated with the progress of bradykinesia were studied in 31 parkinsonian patients and 8 age-matched healthy subjects . among the parameters expressing the changes in motor behaviour , the interval between the onset of eye and hand movements was most sensitive . this parameter reflected the difference in the progress of the symptom in the two motor systems . an increase in the reaction time of the hand response appeared in patients of grade ii bradykinesia ; this was observed for eye movements only in patients with grade iii ( severe ) bradykinesia . while the changes in ocular reaction time remained within the physiological range , a lengthening of the reaction time , a reduction in peak velocity , a decrease in the open-loop gain , a prolongation of movement duration , and a slow build-up in emg activity , appeared from an early stage in hand movement . these signs of motor disturbance may appear eventually in every motor system at an advanced stage , but their development is not synchronous in different motor systems . an analysis of the responses recorded simultaneously from the two motor systems examined made it possible to evaluate the changes in the sensorimotor processes with different grades of bradykinesia . a comparison between reaction times for eye and hand movements may be useful for assessing the degree of bradykinesia in parkinsonian patients . 
anomia for animals in a child . the occurrence of anomia which particularly affected the category of animals is described in a 12-year-old boy . this difficulty cannot be accounted for by frequency or familiarity and is unaffected by whether the stimulus is a line drawing , photograph or model . the deficit does not represent development lag , as normal children of the same naming age differ qualitatively . the results , which include a one year follow-up , are discussed in relation to unitary versus multiple semantic systems . the disorder includes a disturbance of memory arising during the developmental period . it is suggested that items which are involved in daily actions can be more easily remembered than those which are identified by sensory features alone , and that the preserved learning of motor skills in acquired amnesia may be of relevance . 
myotonic dystrophy . a reassessment by conventional and more recently introduced neurophysiological techniques . a series of complementary neurophysiological investigations was carried out on 24 patients with myotonic dystrophy to determine the extent of nervous system involvement . conventional electromyography and nerve conduction studies , computerized motor unit number estimation and motor unit potential analysis , vibration threshold studies and a recently introduced technique for heat and cold threshold estimations were undertaken in all patients . the results provide unequivocal evidence of widespread nervous system dysfunction . in many patients there is significant involvement of peripheral large diameter motor and sensory fibres and of small diameter sensory fibres either peripherally and / or centrally . in the light of these results and others reviewed in the literature , the concept of myotonic dystrophy as a pure myopathy can no longer be sustained . 
cerebellar haemangioblastoma and von hippel-lindau disease . von hippel-lindau disease is an autosomal dominant multisystem disorder , the commonest presenting manifestations of which are haemangioblastomas of the cerebellum and retina . affected individuals are at risk of developing a number of other lesions , the most serious of which are renal carcinoma , haemangioblastomas elsewhere in the central nervous system and phaeochromocytoma . patients with this disease can therefore present to a number of disciplines during their lifetime and unless the possibility of von hippel-lindau disease is considered , the patient may wrongly be assumed to have an isolated lesion . twenty patients with cerebellar haemangioblastomas were seen between 1972 and 1985 ; the diagnosis of von hippel-lindau disease was subsequently established in 8. although the diagnosis had not previously been considered , in retrospect 7 / 8 cases were known to be at risk of this syndrome . these cases came from 7 families and an additional 4 relatives are also known to have been affected . mean age of presentation for the various manifestations of von hippel-lindau disease , each of which occurred in one or other of our cases , has been calculated from 9 of our patients and 107 others reported in the literature . clinically significant manifestations almost invariably developed before the age of 50 years . limited screening of our index cases and their at-risk relatives demonstrated one asymptomatic renal carcinoma . we propose a protocol for screening all individuals at risk of von hippel-lindau disease , which involves annual retinal examination from five years , and biennial computerized tomography of the head and abdomen from fifteen and twenty years , respectively . 
" silent angina " in the elderly [ letter ] 
liposuction : a new body sculpturing procedure [ letter ] 
pharyngeal and rectal gonorrhea in toronto males : decline in reported numbers [ letter ] 
kaposi 's misnomers [ letter ] 
living with stroke : unmet needs [ letter ] 
whither the coronary care unit ? 
the new pediatrics : empty wards , bustling clinics . great strides have been made in reorganizing the way care is provided for children and adolescents with chronic disease in canada . while financing programs and shedding old practice patterns may represent obstacles to implementation , we are likely to see an increasing amount of care delivered in ambulatory settings . this will most certainly bring these children back into their communities , where they will make demands on general physicians and nurses . educational integration will challenge the schools , and community groups such as the red cross society and service organizations will have to fill the gaps . in doing so , these agencies and the professionals involved will have to cooperate in the interests of the child with chronic disease . however , there are sufficient rewards helping the ill child get home to make the increased effort worth while . 
methadone treatment in british columbia : bad medicine ? 
career choices of mcmaster university medical graduates and contemporary canadian medical graduates . the md program at mcmaster university , hamilton , ont . , differs from that at most other canadian universities in the profile of students admitted and in its teaching methods . to investigate influences of selection policy outcomes and the education program , the career choices of 408 mcmaster graduates were compared with those of 1620 graduates of other canadian english-language schools by analysis of data from the cma 's physician manpower data bank . compared with graduates of other schools , mcmaster graduates were more likely to have chosen internal medicine , less likely to have chosen surgery and equally likely to have chosen primary care as their medical field . of those in primary care , a higher proportion of mcmaster graduates than other graduates held certification in family medicine . this was largely responsible for the overall higher rate of certification in the mcmaster group . while the nature of practice and time spent on patient care did not differ between the two groups , several variables , including time spent on professional activities other than patient care , proportion involved in research and classroom teaching , and proportion of salaried physicians employed by universities , indicated a higher than average level of interest in academic medicine among the mcmaster graduates . this could be partially explained by differences in the student profile if students who are interested in education are more likely to choose an educationally innovative medical school . 
the midclavicular line : a wandering landmark . although the midclavicular line ( mcl ) is the usual reference point for clinical assessment of liver size and localization of the cardiac apex beat , we found substantial interobserver variation in locating the mcl . the distance from the midline to the mcl as estimated by 20 clinicians in three subjects varied by up to 10 cm . more variation was found for estimates in the obese subject than for those in the two subjects of normal build ( p = 0.004 ) . no difference in variation was found between consultants and house staff . the limitations of the mcl as a reference point are discussed in light of these findings . 
spontaneous dissection of the carotid artery : an unusual cause of stroke in younger patients . 
a little more humility , please . 
murder , mayhem and medicine topics as forensic scientists meet . 
us doctors flocking to salaried employment . 
democratic socialism confronts psychiatry [ letter ] 
phototherapy for healthy term infants [ letter ] 
recommendations from the consensus conference on hypertension in the elderly [ letter ] 
" dry heaves " and ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm [ letter ] 
communicating medicolegal information : risky business [ letter ] 
asbestos : promotion or prohibition ? 
measuring birth defects and handicapping disorders in the population : the british columbia health surveillance registry . 
medicare : ethics versus economics . 
growth charts for indian and inuit children . indian and inuit health committee , canadian paediatric society . 
two- , three- and four-wheel unlicensed off-road vehicles . accident prevention committee , canadian paediatric society . 
psychosocial problems : what help do rural and urban patients want from their family physicians ? we surveyed 399 patients of family physicians in two rural canadian towns to determine what help with 30 psychosocial problems they wanted from their physicians . the patients completed a self-administered questionnaire in which they could choose from four levels of physician involvement : no involvement , knowledge of the problem but no help , knowledge of the problem and referral to a specialist , and treatment by the physician . half of the patients wanted help with life-cycle problems , and over half desired treatment for sleeping problems , anxiety and depression . however , close to 50 % of the patients desired no help for interpersonal problems , and over 50 % wished to see a specialist for help in coping with a physical illness and long-term pain . interestingly , english-speaking patients wanted significantly more physician involvement than did french-speaking patients . the results were similar to those of an earlier study of urban patients . implications for family medicine training are discussed . 
respiratory syncytial virus surveillance in various regions across canada . 
infections due to respiratory syncytial virus in canada . 
health care in chile : doctors take on a declining system . 
do doctors consider the risks in research involving children ? 
get prepared for more cases of aids during pregnancy . 
aids has created a new form of bereavement . 
treatment of children with neurogenic sarcoma . experience at the children 's hospital of philadelphia , 1958-1984 . twenty-four children aged 3 months to 18 years ( median , 12 years ) were treated for neurogenic sarcoma at the children 's hospital of philadelphia cancer research center from 1958 through 1984. sixteen patients had neurofibromatosis ( nf ) . the tumors arose in an extremity or in the trunk ( 15 patients ) , the retroperitoneum-pelvis ( 6 ) , or other sites ( 3 ) . twelve children underwent grossly complete excision of localized sarcoma ; of them , five had no known residual tumor and seven had proven microscopic residual disease . ten of the remaining 12 patients had grossly visible , residual localized disease , and two had lung metastases . after operation , nine were treated on a protocol with local radiation therapy ( 4000-6000 rad ) plus vincristine , actinomycin d , and cyclophosphamide with or without adriamycin ( doxorubicin ) . the other 15 were treated variably . at 3 years , the proportion of tumor-free survivors was 9 of 24 ( 37.5 % ) . the significant favorable factors were the initial surgical removal of all gross tumor ( 9 of 12 with tumor excision were tumor-free survivors at 3 years compared to none of 12 with gross residual sarcoma ; p less than 0.01 ) , and a tumor mitotic rate under one per high-power field . no significant correlation was found between tumor-free survival expectancy and age , race , sex , the presence of nf , the site and size of the primary tumor , or use of the chemoradiotherapy regimen . more effective treatment programs are needed for children with neurogenic sarcoma , especially for those with unresectable tumors . 
dna distribution patterns in early gastric carcinomas . a feulgen cytometric study of gastric brush smears . dna distribution patterns were studied by cytophotometry in 20 feulgen-stained brush smears of early gastric carcinomas . two different dna distribution patterns , classified as predominantly diploid and aneuploid , were correlated with histologic data . six of seven carcinomas of diffuse type were predominantly diploid . by contrast , 11 of 13 intestinal type carcinomas were aneuploid and two were diploid . since the dna distribution patterns recorded in this study were previously observed in advanced gastric carcinomas , this would suggest that the basic genetic make-up of the tumors does not change with tumor progression . 
dna flow analysis of soft tissue tumors . the cellular dna content of 81 soft tissue tumors was determined by means of flow cytometry and related to conventional histologic classification of the same tumors . comparison of histologic and cytometric analysis showed that all 23 benign tumors were diploid ( normal dna content ) , whereas the malignant group included both diploid and aneuploid ( abnormal dna content ) lesions . there appeared to be a relationship between tumor grade and ploidy level in that 92 % of grade ii , 28 % of grade iii , and 11 % of grade iv lesions were diploid . cell distribution analysis , feasible in 51 cases , disclosed that diploid lesions had a low proportion of s and g2 + m cells and most aneuploid lesions a high proportion , indicating a relationship between ploidy level and proliferative activity . the current study shows that solid mesenchymal tumors may be analyzed by dna flow cytometry . regardless of histogenetic type , it appears that benign and low-grade tumors are diploid and high-grade tumors , in general , are aneuploid . as to exceptions , dna analysis may prove to give information beyond that obtained by subjective histologic interpretation . thus , adequate follow-up might show that high-grade lesions with a diploid dna content are associated with a better prognosis than expected from histologic classification . 
improved prognosis with intensive treatment of children with cranial soft tissue sarcomas arising in nonorbital parameningeal sites . a report from the intergroup rhabdomyosarcoma study . in the first intergroup rhabdomyosarcoma study ( irs-i ) , it was found that , of 57 patients with nonorbital cranial parameningeal sarcoma treated from 1972 to 1976 , 20 patients ( 35 % ) developed meningeal sarcoma and 90 % ( 18 / 20 ) died of this complication . since about half of these 20 patients had received inadequate radiation therapy and all had radiation therapy delayed until week 6 , the treatment program was modified in december 1977 to begin radiation therapy on day 0 to the entire neuraxis and the primary tumor for all patients presenting with one or more risk factors indicating a high risk of meningeal involvement , and to administer periodic intrathecal medications to the same patients . the risk factors were intracranial extension of tumor , bony erosion at the cranial base , and cranial nerve palsy . in this report , the prognoses of two groups of patients with nonorbital cranial parameningeal sarcoma are compared : 95 patients treated before modification of the protocol in december 1977 with chemotherapy and nonintensive meningeal radiotherapy ( preintensive group ) and 68 patients treated subsequently with intensive meningeal radiotherapy and chemotherapy ( intensive group ) . all patients received vincristine and actinomycin d ( dactinomycin ) with or without cyclophosphamide and adriamycin ( doxorubicin ) , according to the protocol . radiation therapy consisted of 4000 to 5500 rad to the primary tumor in 5 to 6 weeks for most patients . the intensively treated patients also received intrathecal drugs via lumbar puncture and whole cranial or craniospinal radiation when one or more meningeal risk factors were present . in the preintensive group , the complete remission rate was 68 % ( 65 / 95 ) ; the percentages of patients tumor free or alive at 3 years were 33 % and 41 % , respectively . in intensively treated patients , the complete remission rate was 76 % ( 52 / 68 ) ; the percentages of patients tumor free or alive at 3 years were 57 % and 68 % , respectively . the improvements in the percentages of intensively treated patients tumor free or surviving were highly statistically significant ( p less than 0.01 for both comparisons ) . within the intensive treatment group , meningeal involvement at diagnosis was an unfavorable prognostic sign , since patients with no meningeal involvement had much better tumor-free survival at 3 years ( 81 % vs . 51 % ) and survival ( 90 % vs . 57 % ) than patients with evidence of meningeal involvement ; the differences were highly statistically significant ( p = 0.01 ) . 
a phase i trial of continuous infusion cisplatin . treatment with continuous infusions of cisplatin results in increased filterable drug exposures as measured by the area under the curve ( auc ) of nonprotein-bound plasma platinum levels . to determine the dose-limiting toxicity and optimal method of administration , 24 patients were treated with continuous infusions of cisplatin at a dose rate of 25 mg / m2 / day in a limited phase i trial . a total of 47 courses were given . nine patients received 13 courses of 4 days duration , 19 received 29 courses of 5 days duration , and five received courses of 6 or 7 days duration . dose-limiting toxicity was found to be leukopenia : 42 % of patients receiving the 5-day treatment developed a nadir count of less than 3000 cells / mm3 . nausea and vomiting were easily controlled . minimal nephrotoxicity occurred in five patients and was associated with daily volume expansion with 2 l of 0.9 % nacl solution in four patients . all other patients were given 3 l of daily volume expansion during treatment . responses were seen in 6 of 22 evaluable patients ( 27 % ) . it is concluded that continuous infusion cisplatin at a dose rate of 25 mg / m2 / day can be given safely for 5 days as a single agent if concomitant volume expansion with at least 3 l of 0.9 % nacl solution is given daily . phase iii comparative trials with a conventional bolus and newer high-dose regimens for response and toxicity are indicated . 
results in treatment of carcinoma of the external auditory canal and middle ear . of 31 patients treated for carcinoma of the external auditory canal and / or middle ear , 19 patients ( 61 % ) presented with a long-term history of otitis . thirteen patients ( 42 % ) had cranial nerve involvement . the patients were treated by surgery , radiotherapy , or a combined treatment of surgery and radiotherapy . the overall 5-year crude survival rate was 29 % . irrespective of the final outcome , 19 patients ( 61 % ) obtained pain relief after initial treatment . three of the patients with facial nerve involvement survived 5 years after the initial treatment . postmortem examinations of ten patients revealed distant metastases in four patients . 
metastatic cancer . a relative contraindication to vena cava filter placement . from october 1979 to november 1984 , 41 patients underwent placement of vena cava filters for prevention of pulmonary emboli . after filter placement , no pulmonary emboli were documented . no patient died due to filter placement . however , 20 of these 41 patients are dead . eighteen deaths were caused by cancer . ten ( 24 % ) patients died within 2 months of filter placement . five ( 12 % ) patients died prior to hospital discharge . all ten of these patients had known , widely metastatic cancer . among the ten patients who died more than 2 months after filter placement , six had well-differentiated , slow growing tumors . only three of these patients had brain metastases . among the 21 survivors only two suffered from cancer . strict adherence to accepted indications for vena cava filter placement required operative procedures on a small but significant number of patients who demonstrated no significant improvement in quality of life or time out of hospital . filter placement in patients with aggressive cancers and proven metastases should be performed only after analysis of predicted survival and after detailed discussions with patients and referring physicians . filter placement in patients with aggressive metastatic cancer may cause discomfort , risk , and expense with little hope for improvement of hospital course , longevity , or quality of life . 
carcinoma in situ of the urinary bladder . effect of associated neoplastic lesions on clinical course and treatment . clinical courses of 67 patients with carcinoma in situ ( cis ) of the urinary bladder during 14 years from 1971 to 1984 were investigated according to the clinical type of cis and treatment methods . cis was classified into four types : the primary group included 18 patients who had neither prior nor simultaneous tumors of the urinary tract ; the secondary group included 10 patients who had cis diagnosed subsequent to the treatment of superficial papillary bladder tumor ; the concurrent group included 14 patients who had cis concomitantly with superficial papillary bladder tumor ; and the nonpapillary t1 group included 25 patients who presented with cis with concomitant nonpapillary t1 tumor . as a rule , the initial treatment was conservative ( transurethral resection [ tur ] or intravesical chemotherapy ) for the primary , secondary , and concurrent cis groups , whereas treatment was radical ( total cystectomy or irradiation ) for the nonpapillary t1 group . five-year survival rates of the primary , secondary , concurrent , and nonpapillary t1 groups were 41 % , 100 % , 49 % , and 68 % , respectively . secondary cis revealed a rather good prognosis , probably due to the early detection of cis and early application of intravesical chemotherapy when compared to other groups . except for patients with nonpapillary t1 tumors , the 5-year rate of malignant progression ( invasion or metastasis ) and multiple recurrences leading to delayed cystectomy was 81 % in 16 patients treated by tur , whereas it was 39 % in 21 patients treated by instillation therapy . it appears likely that intravesical chemotherapy was preferable to other conservative therapies as an initial treatment of cis . radical therapy , however , may be the choice for cis with nonpapillary t1 tumors , ab initio . 
lymphangiosarcoma associated with chronic filarial lymphedema . a case of a 19-year-old inhabitant of southern india with chronic filarial lymphedema of the right leg and subsequent lymphangiosarcoma is reported . two additional cases of lymphangiosarcoma occurring in patients with filarial lymphedema are reviewed from the literature . 
multidrug chemotherapy using bleomycin , methotrexate , and cisplatin combined with radical radiotherapy in advanced head and neck cancer . thirty-one patients with stage iii-iv head and neck squamous cell cancer were treated by three courses of combination chemotherapy using bleomycin , methotrexate , and cisplatin followed by a radical course of radiation and in two cases by surgery . of 29 evaluable patients , 4 ( 14 % ) achieved complete remission ( cr ) with chemotherapy and 13 ( 45 % ) had a partial response ( pr ) . with the addition of radiotherapy and surgery , the cr rate increased to 72 % . at 30 months the actuarial survival of all evaluable patients was 61 % and of complete responders , 76 % . patients with nasopharyngeal cancer had an actuarial survival of 80 % at 30 months , whereas patients with squamous malignancies at other sites in the head and neck region had an actuarial survival of only 37 % . side effects were tolerable . it is concluded that complete responders to combination chemotherapy and radiotherapy have a survival benefit at 30 months . the combined approach is most effective in nasopharyngeal cancer . 
results of treatment of stage 3a hodgkin 's disease . from 1975 to 1981 , 38 patients with stage 3a hodgkin 's disease ( 35 patients pathologically staged ) underwent mantle and para-aortic irradiation , and in 36 patients this was preceded or followed by at least six cycles of multiagent chemotherapy . both the 5-year actuarial survival and disease-free survival for all 38 patients were 83 % . there have been six treatment failures : two patients have relapsed within irradiated nodal groups , one patient in apical pericardial lymph nodes as a marginal recurrence , one patient concurrently infield and in unirradiated nodal groups , and two patients systemically ( concurrently in unirradiated nodal groups ) . of these six relapses , three patients have died of hodgkin 's disease , one patient has been salvaged , and two patients currently are under treatment for salvage . one patient has developed acute nonlymphocytic leukemia and died of this disease . extensive disease , as estimated by the number of sites of involvement at presentation , degree of splenic involvement , extent of intra-abdominal disease or mediastinal involvement , did not reveal statistically significant prognostic subgroups for relapse . it is currently recommended that patients with stage 3a hodgkin 's disease receive six cycles of multiagent chemotherapy and mantle and para-aortic irradiation . 
alteration of methotrexate metabolism in rats by administration of an elemental liquid diet . i . changes in drug enterohepatic circulation . severe enteritis and death consistently occur within 150 hours of a single intraperitoneal dose of 25 mg / kg methotrexate given to rats fed an elemental diet . rats fed a regular chow diet show no clinical evidence of gastrointestinal morbidity or mortality at this dose . the etiology of this enhanced toxicity is not clear , however . it this study rats were randomized to receive an elemental diet ( n = 45 ) or a regular chow diet ( n = 45 ) for 7 days . they were then given a bolus dose of 3h methotrexate ( 25 mg / kg ) intraperitoneally . at 20 and 40 minutes and at 1 , 2 , 12 , 24 , 48 , 72 , and 96 hours after injection , five animals from each group were anesthetized , and mean methotrexate levels in bile and serum , and tissue methotrexate concentrations in proximal , mid , and distal small intestine and in liver were obtained . mean methotrexate levels in bile were significantly elevated in rats fed an elemental , chemically defined diet at 12 , 24 , 48 , and 72 hours compared with regular diet fed rats . mean serum methotrexate levels were elevated in both the inferior vena cava ( ivc ) and portal vein ( pv ) at 12 ( ivc ) , 24 ( pv ) , and 48 hours ( ivc ) in elemental , liquid diet fed rats . there were no statistical differences between methotrexate levels in rats fed an elemental diet or a regular chow diet in proximal or mid small intestine at any of the time points measured . in the distal small intestine , methotrexate levels were significantly elevated at 24 hours in rats fed an elemental , chemically defined liquid diet ( p less than 0.03 ) compared with regular diet fed rats . methotrexate levels in liver of rats fed an elemental , chemically defined liquid diet were significantly elevated at 24 and 48 ( p less than 0.05 ) hours . administration of an elemental , chemically defined liquid diet prolongs the enterohepatic circulation of methotrexate in rats and delays clearance of the drug from the systemic circulation . thus , prolonged exposure of methotrexate to the cells of the intestinal mucosa explains the increased gastrointestinal side effects of the drug in rats fed an elemental , chemically defined liquid diet . if these results are applicable to man , elemental , chemically defined liquid diets are contraindicated as the sole nutritional source in patients receiving methotrexate . such qualitative alteration of dietary intake may be a factor in the unpredictability of gastrointestinal side effects associated with high dose methotrexate administration . 
human monoclonal antibodies derived from lymph nodes of a patient with breast carcinoma react with mumtv polypeptides . nine human hybridoma cell lines were established from a fusion of axillary lymph node lymphocytes of a patient with breast ductal carcinoma with a human lymphoblastoid cell line . the human hybridoma nature of the fusion products was confirmed by chromosomal analysis and hla typing . the hybridomas are stable over a year of growth , and can be frozen , thawed and regrown . the carcinoma cells of the patient harbor mouse mammary tumor virus ( mumtv ) cross-reacting antigens . the patient 's serum and the purified monoclonal antibodies reacted with mumtv polypeptides . radioimmunoprecipitation studies using labeled mumtv confirmed the binding of the patient 's serum to the viral proteins . none of the control immunoglobulins reacted with the virus . no binding of the hybridoma immunoglobulins was observed with two other retroviruses ( avian myeloblastosis virus and simian sarcoma virus ) . the ligand binding characteristics of the monoclonal antibodies suggest binding to epitopes on the various structural virus polypeptides . these monoclonal antibodies may serve as a probe to analyze the mumtv-human breast carcinoma relationship . 
small cell carcinoma of the lung . a progress report of 15 years ' experience . to assess the results of therapeutic advances in the treatment of small cell carcinoma of the lung ( sccl ) achieved during the past 15-year period at a single large institution , 508 patients treated between 1968 and 1982 were divided into two groups : 157 patients ( 66 in the category of limited-stage disease and 91 in the extensive-stage disease category ) treated with low-dose small-volume radiotherapy ( rt ) ( time dose fractionation [ tdf ] 49-66 ) and with cyclophosphamide alone or a copp program during the first period of 7 years ( 1968-1974 ) ; 351 patients ( 180 in limited and 171 in extensive stage ) treated with multidrug chemotherapy ( ct ) and high-dose large-volume rt ( tdf 73-89 ) during the second period of 8 years ( 1975-1982 ) . for patients with limited-stage cancer , 5-year actuarial survivals were 3 % versus 7 % for the periods 1968-1974 versus 1975-1982 , respectively , p less than 0.01 . for patients with extensive-stage cancer , the median survival time ( mst ) and 2-year actuarial survivals were 5 months and 2 % versus 7 months and 4 % for the periods 1968-1974 versus 1975-1982 , respectively . to evaluate the outcome of a contemporary approach , i.e. , ct alone , with rt reserved for locoregional failure , 180 patients with limited-stage cancer who were treated ( 1975-1982 ) were further analyzed for mst , 2- and 5-year actuarial survival figures , and local-tumor control rates according to the therapeutic approaches employed : ct + rt ( 112 ) ; ct alone ( 36 ) ; rt alone ( 17 ) ; and surgery ( s ) + / - ct + / - rt ( 15 ) . although the 36 patients in ct alone seems a small number , 17 of the 36 patients were enrolled in this approach in 1981-1982 , reflecting a shift of emphasis from rt to ct . the mst and 2-year actuarial survival figures were 11 months and 0 % versus 13 months and 21 % for ct alone versus ct + rt respectively , p less than 0.05 . ct + rt achieved a 5-year cure rate of 8 % . s + / - ct + / - rt or rt alone also achieved 5-year cure rates of 8 % and 10.5 % , respectively , in selected subsets of patients . local relapse rates were 80 % ( 29 / 36 ) versus 25 % ( 28 / 112 ) for ct alone versus ct + rt . these data emphasize the importance of thoracic rt given at the early phase of treatment to improve long-term survival for patients with limited-stage sccl . 
lymphocyte urosynthase in non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . an indicator of disease extensiveness . the activity of lymphocyte uroporphyrinogen synthase ( uro-s ) was examined in 51 non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) patients at various follow-up periods . mean + / - sd activity ( pmol porphyrin / mg protein / hr ) at diagnosis ( n = 24 ) , on relapse ( n = 14 ) and during active disease ( n = 14 ) were 31.7 + / - 19.8 , 31.7 + / - 27.2 and 29.4 + / - 18.5 , respectively . these values were significantly higher than the enzyme activity during remission ( 14.1 + / - 4.0 ) , which was in the normal range ( 14.5 + / - 3.8 ) . abnormally high activity was found in 65.4 % of determinations at diagnosis , on relapse and during active disease , compared to 5.5 % during remission ( p less than 0.001 ) . significant association of abnormal uro-s activity was found with advanced clinical stage ( p less than 0.01 ) , spleen enlargement ( p = 0.048 ) , involvement of bone marrow ( p = 0.02 ) , as well as lymphoma cell spread to peripheral blood ( p = 0.03 ) . highly significant correlation ( r = 0.65 , p less than 0.001 ) was found between uro-s activity and serum lactic dehydrogenase ( ldh ) levels . excessively high levels of uro-s activity were found only in patients with lymphoma cells in peripheral blood . no association was found with histopathologic classification and liver size . the authors conclude that uro-s activity is a biochemical indicator for patients in all stages of nhl and seems to be a specific marker for the extensiveness of the disease . 
lymphocyte predominance hodgkin 's disease . a clinicopathologic reassessment . a clinicopathologic analysis of 35 cases of lymphocyte predominance hodgkin 's disease ( lphd ) was performed , and the relationship between various histologic features and stage at presentation was examined . the series comprised 31 male and 4 female patients with a median age of 32 years . twenty patients had ann arbor stage i disease ; 5 , stage ii ; 8 , stage iii ; and 2 , stage iv . eight cases showed a multifocal epithelioid histiocytic reaction ; six of these had advanced-stage ( iii or iv ) disease ( p = 0.003 ) . five cases contained relatively frequent atypical mononuclear cells ; four of these were stage iii or iv ( p = 0.017 ) . a purely diffuse growth pattern was also associated with high stage ( p = 0.031 ) . presence of nodularity correlated with low stage ( p = 0.031 ) . during follow-up ( median , 4 years ; range , 2.5 months-18 years ) there was a high incidence of second neoplasms ( 2 large cell lymphomas , 3 non-hematologic malignancies ) . lphd manifests greater diversity of stage at presentation than originally thought . a high content of epithelioid histiocytes , relatively frequent atypical mononuclear cells , and diffuse histology appear to define subsets associated with advanced-stage disease . the correlation of nodular growth pattern with low-stage disease is consistent with the distinctive behavior and derivation of nodular lphd . 
the cytogenetics of solid tumors . relation to diagnosis , classification and pathology . this overview discusses the chromosome changes in solid tumors and how recent advancements in techniques have yielded results which at least qualitatively are similar to those obtained in the leukemias , i.e. , that consistent and recurrent chromosome changes characterize most tumors adequately examined and that tumor entities consist of cytogenetically defined and unique subsets . thus , the findings point to a similar application of the chromosome changes in tumors in their classification , diagnosis and causation . 
hepatic undifferentiated ( embryonal ) sarcoma and rhabdomyosarcoma in children . results of therapy . from july 1972 through september 1984 , 8 of 44 children diagnosed as having primary malignant hepatic tumors , who were treated at st . jude children 's research hospital , had undifferentiated ( embryonal ) sarcoma ( five patients ) or rhabdomyosarcoma ( three patients ) . the natural history and response to multimodal therapy of these rare tumors are described . the pathologic material was reviewed and evidence for the differentiating potential of undifferentiated ( embryonal ) sarcoma is presented . at diagnosis , disease was restricted to the right lobe of the liver in three patients , was bilobar in four patients , and extended from the left lobe into the diaphragm in one patient . lung metastases were present in two patients at diagnosis . all three patients with rhabdomyosarcoma had intrahepatic lesions without involvement of the biliary tree . survival ranged from 6 to 73 months from diagnosis ( median , 19.5 months ) ; two patients are surviving disease-free for 55+ and 73+ months , and one patient recently underwent resection of a recurrent pulmonary nodule 22 months from initial diagnosis . three patients died of progressive intrahepatic and extrahepatic abdominal tumors , and two patients , who died of progressive pulmonary tumor , also had bone or brain metastasis but no recurrence of intra-abdominal tumor . six patients had objective evidence of response to chemotherapy . the authors suggest an aggressive multimodal approach to the treatment of these rare tumors in children . 
uterine papillary serous carcinoma with high levels of serum carcinoembryonic antigen . response to combination chemotherapy . a case of metastatic uterine papillary carcinoma with elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) is reported . the patient presented with ascites and pleural effusions and with a high level of cea ( 258 ng / ml ) 3 months after primary surgical resection and postoperative irradiation had been performed . her complete response , although temporary , to two kinds of combination chemotherapy was evaluated using serial estimations of the serum cea . 
hydrazine sulfate in cancer patients with weight loss . a placebo-controlled clinical experience . hydrazine sulfate was evaluated using 24-hour dietary recalls and body weight determinations before and after 30 days of either placebo or hydrazine ( 60 mg , 3 times / d ) oral administration in 101 heavily pretreated cancer patients with weight loss . after 1 month , 83 % of hydrazine and only 53 % of placebo patients completing repeat evaluation maintained or increased their weight ( p less than 0.05 ) . in addition , appetite improvement was more frequent in the hydrazine group ( 63 % versus 25 % , p less than 0.05 ) . although caloric intake was only slightly greater in hydrazine-treated patients , an increased caloric intake was more commonly associated with weight gain in patients receiving hydrazine compared with those receiving placebo ( 81 % versus 53 % , respectively ) . hydrazine toxicity was mild , with 71 % of patients reporting no toxic effects . hydrazine sulfate circulatory levels were obtained from a subset of 14 patients who completed 30 days of treatment , with a single sample obtained in the morning at least 9 hours after the last dose . mean maintenance hydrazine sulfate levels , determined using a spectrofluorometric assay , ranged from 0 to 89 ng / ml ( mean 45 + / - 16 ng / ml ) . these data , which demonstrate an association between 1 month of hydrazine sulfate administration and body weight maintenance in patients with cancer , suggest future clinical trials of hydrazine sulfate are indicated to definitively assess its long-term impact on important clinical outcome parameters in defined cancer populations . 
radiation-induced skin cancer and radiodermatitis of the head and neck . from a cohort of 2400 patients who had been irradiated 19 to 48 years previously for benign diseases in the head and neck region a randomly selected group of 605 patients was selected and traced back . from the 360 patients alive , 257 were examined clinically and 49 were examined by questionnaire for radiation-induced skin tumors and radiodermatitis . in 21 patients , a total of 30 skin tumors were diagnosed . in 8 of 21 patients , 10 skin carcinomas were detected at recall . a dose-effect relationship of 40 carcinomas / 10 ( 4 ) persons / gy for a median follow-up period of 41 years for the area exposed was calculated . the severity of radiodermatitis is associated with a higher prevalence of skin cancer . the number of radiation-induced skin cancers rises with the post-treatment time . because of these late radiation effects , radiotherapy of benign skin lesions is contraindicated , especially now that other therapy modalities are available . 
a survey of human cancers for human papillomavirus dna by filter hybridization . we examined 217 tissue samples of various human malignancies for the presence of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) dna using low-stringency filter hybridization techniques . these techniques were sufficiently sensitive for crosshybridization of the hpv dna probes to all the known types of papillomavirus dnas , both human and animal . approximately 2 % of the cancers analyzed contained hpv dna . these included carcinomas of the lung , cecum , tongue , and neck . three of four cancers contained hpv-16-related nucleotide sequences . thus , in addition to previous data demonstrating the association of hpv dna with certain cancers of the skin and genital tract , data is presented that indicates that several additional human cancers also contain hpv-related nucleotide sequences . 
angioinvasive plasma cell granulomas of the lung . a series of eight plasma cell granulomas of the lung were examined . their clinical , pathologic , and immunohistochemical characteristics as well as the ultrastructural features of one case are in agreement with those found in the literature . one patient died after a surgical intervention complicated by invasion of pulmonary veins . this led to a search for vascular injuries in the other cases . on the whole , of eight cases , two showed vascular invasions at a distance , five ( including the preceding ones ) showed invasion of medium-sized blood vessels in the peripheral parts of the lesion , and three showed older invasions in their center ; only two had no vascular lesions . to the authors ' knowledge , vascular invasion at a distance has been reported only once to date . an inflammatory origin for these cytologically benign lesions remains possible , although a striking resemblance with intravascular fasciitis can also be shown . these lesions should be treated by radical and precocious surgery . 
medial regression and its functional significance in tumor-supplying host arteries . a morphometric study of hepatic arteries in human livers with hepatocellular carcinoma . livers from 30 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma were submitted to morphometric analysis of the arterial smooth muscles to correlate the peculiar circulation in cancer , i.e. , the lack of flow regulation , with the structure of blood vessels in and around the tumors . the anatomical radius and medial thickness of the cross-sectioned arteries were determined in a standardized state of the circularly stretched , internal elastic membrane . it was shown that not only the medial smooth muscles were extremely hypoplastic in arterioles contained in the carcinoma , but the media of tumor-supplying host arteries was also significantly thinner than in the controls , even in segments distant from the tumor , showing more or less lowered regulatory activity of the whole tumor-bearing arterial tree . under these circumstances , dissection of the host arteries was frequently found to arise , evolving into the typically non-muscularized tumor vessels . the authors consider the abnormal hemodynamics of cancer to be fully explainable from these vascular alterations . 
induction of high-grade , high-stage carcinomas in the rat urinary bladder . the hypothesis that biologic aggressiveness of bladder cancer is determined by carcinogen dose was tested using heterotopically transplanted rat urinary bladders ( htbs ) . young male fischer rats , which were recipients of normal bladders , were divided into three groups ; the first group received 0.5 mg of n-methyl-n-nitrosourea ( mnu ) into htbs for six doses , a second , 0.05 mg for six doses and the third , 1 mg for three doses . separately , a group of animals received bladders from rats treated with 0.05 % n-butyl-n- ( 4-hydroxybutyl ) nitrosamine ( bhbn ) in drinking water for 4 weeks ; the transplanted bladders then were treated with 0.5 mg of mnu for six doses . treatment with the larger dose of mnu resulted in a significant increase in tumor incidence and frequency of invasive carcinomas . the combination carcinogen treatment induced more invasive carcinomas than the single treatment . the data suggest that deeply invasive carcinomas may develop in two ways : the first is by emergence of a more anaplastic cell population within a pre-existing noninvasive carcinoma and the second is by the de novo development of an invasive carcinoma directly from a severely dysplastic urothelium , which is acceptable as carcinoma in situ . squamous differentiation was characteristic of deeply invasive carcinomas . the dose of carcinogen ( s ) is a determinant of aggressiveness of bladder carcinomas . 
pathology of fatal rhabdomyosarcoma . report from intergroup rhabdomyosarcoma study ( irs-i and irs-ii ) . patterns of tumor spread were studied by examining clinicopathologic and postmortem data on 274 tumor-related deaths from patients in irs-i and irs-ii . the activity of the primary lesion and presence or absence of distant metastases at death were related to the histologic subtype and anatomic site of origin , individually and / or in combination . the alveolar subtype had the highest proportion of distant metastases and the lowest occurrence of local progression alone from the primary site . more distant metastases were observed among the patients with extremity primary , and the frequency increased significantly with the alveolar histologic subtype . parameningeal tumors , irrespective of their histologic subtypes , showed a high incidence of direct extension from the primary lesion especially into the cns . the lung was the most common site of metastasis at death , followed by the regional lymph node , bone , liver , and brain . regional node involvement was observed more commonly in patients with lower extremity primary and alveolar subtype . 
tumor-associated tissue eosinophilia in nasopharyngeal carcinoma . a pathologic study of 422 primary and 138 metastatic tumors . a study of biopsy specimens from 422 consecutive primary nasopharyngeal carcinomas ( npcs ) revealed tumor-associated tissue eosinophilia ( tate ) in a large proportion ( 26 % ) of the tumors . tate occurred more frequently in nonkeratinizing carcinomas ( nkc , 38 % ) than in the squamous ( 21 % ) or undifferentiated ( 23 % ) types . there was no sex predilection and no association with the presence of intratumor amyloid deposits . stromal eosinophilia was also observed in 53 ( 38 % ) of 138 metastatic npcs in lymph nodes , where it had occasionally led to confusion with hodgkin 's disease . tate may be a feature of diagnostic importance in npc , although its prognostic significance remains to be ascertained . 
melanocytic neuroendocrine carcinoma of the thymus . a neuroendocrine carcinoma of the thymus with an ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone ( acth ) syndrome and melanocytic differentiation is described . acth , neuron-specific enolase ( nse ) and s-100 protein were identified in the tumor by immunocytochemistry . neurosecretory granules and melanosomes could be demonstrated in different cell populations by electronmicroscopy . the clinicopathologic findings are presented . the literature is briefly discussed . 
malignant fibrous histiocytoma in bone infarct . association with sickle cell trait and alcohol abuse [ published erratum appears in cancer 1987 may 15 ; 59 ( 10 ) : 1809 ] a 42-year-old black man with sickle cell trait and a history of alcohol abuse had a malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the distal femur . the tumor developed in a bone infarct that had been present for at least 54 months . this is the first reported association of malignant fibrous histiocytoma and bone infarct in which the infarct was related to sickle cell trait and alcohol abuse . a detailed map of the sections from the resected femur disclosed a spectrum of cytologic changes in the sarcoma that ranged from bland fibroblasts in the center of the tumor to high-grade sarcoma at the periphery . awareness of this spectrum has diagnostic importance regarding the potential underdiagnosis of well-differentiated malignant fibrous histiocytoma . 
carcinoma of the ampulla of vater . a clinicopathologic study and pathologic staging of 109 cases of carcinoma and 5 cases of adenoma . a total of 109 cases of carcinoma and 5 cases of adenoma of the ampulla of vater were studied by preparing 5-mm step-wise whole tissue sections in each case . carcinoma of the ampulla of vater could be divided into four stages ( i , ii , iii and iv ) , according to the microscopically verified extent of involvement by the tumor . all 12 patients with a stage i tumor , defined as one restricted to within the muscle of oddi as a boundary , showed no lymph node involvement and carried an excellent life expectancy with a relative 5-year survival rate of 85 % . thus , categorization of such a tumor as early carcinoma of the ampulla of vater is valid . excluding two unclassifiable cases , the remaining 95 patients with stage ii , iii , or iv tumors extending beyond the boundary of oddi carried relative 5-year survival rates of 11 % , 25 % , or 24 % , respectively . of the 109 carcinomas , 20 had areas of unequivocal adenoma at the margins , and of the five adenomas , two larger ones had foci of atypical epithelium suggestive of carcinoma in situ . these findings show the close relationship between adenoma and adenocarcinoma of the ampulla of vater . 
sarcomatoid renal cell carcinoma : clinicopathologic . a study of 42 cases . forty-two cases of sarcomatoid renal cell carcinoma were reviewed clinicopathologically . twenty-four patients were men , and 18 women ; average age was 56.2 years ( range , 30-81 years ) . eight , 9 , 13 , and 12 cases were stages i , ii , iii , and iv , respectively . three morphologic patterns of sarcomatoid components were identified : malignant fibrous histiocytomatous ( 26 cases ) , fibrosarcomatous ( 6 cases ) , and unclassified sarcomatoid ( 10 cases ) . mitotic count , degree of pleomorphism , cellularity , and amount of tumor matrix in the sarcomatoid areas , and similar morphologic parameters in the carcinomatous component all failed to correlate with prognosis , as did tumor size and renal vein involvement by tumor . clinicopathologic stage was a most significant prognostic factor , with a survival of 49.7 months for stage i and 6.8 months for combined stages ii , iii , and iv . tumor necrosis in the sarcomatoid area and proportion of sarcomatoid components were also poor prognostic factors . when these factors were compared to the stage , necrosis was an independent variable , however , proportion of sarcomatoid components was a poor prognostic indicator only for stages i and ii . 
sarcomatoid renal tumors . clinicopathologic correlation of three cases . the clinical , light and ultrastructural features of three renal neoplasms demonstrating a sarcomatous appearance on light microscopic examination are reported . at the time of radical nephrectomy , all three tumors displayed aggressive features with capsular invasion and either metastases or invasion of adjacent organs . ultrastructural examination revealed epithelial features in a pure spindle cell tumor and in a malignant fibrous histiocytoma-like tumor ( sarcomatoid renal carcinoma ) and smooth muscle differentiation ( leiomyosarcoma ) in a lesion showing features of malignant fibrous histiocytoma . all three patients died from 1 to 9 months after nephrectomy . renal tumors with a sarcomatous histologic appearance are aggressive neoplasms that cannot be classified accurately solely by employing light microscopic criteria . 
the significance of atypia within teratomatous metastases after chemotherapy for malignant germ cell tumors . the completely resected teratomatous metastases of 55 patients who had been treated with cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy for non-seminomatous germ cell tumors were reviewed to see if cellular atypia had an effect with respect to recurrent disease . the degree of atypia of the epithelial and mesenchymal elements was assessed on the basis of the cytologic features and mitotic activity . twenty-three percent of the cases contained high-grade epithelial elements , whereas high-grade mesenchymal elements occurred in 18 % of the cases ; in addition there were nine cases classified as showing frankly malignant teratomatous elements . the presence of cytologically disturbing epithelial and mesenchymal elements ( which , however , lacked an invasive malignant pattern ) correlated with an increased incidence of recurrent teratoma compared to less atypical teratomatous elements ( 23 % vs . 6 % for epithelial elements , and 18 % vs . 9 % for mesenchymal elements , respectively ) . this difference , however , was not statistically significant ( p greater than 0.05 ) . there was no correlation between teratomatous atypia and recurrent , non-teratomatous germ cell tumor . the presence of an invasive malignant pattern did identify patients at significantly increased risk for recurrent teratoma-derived tumor . the authors conclude that cytologic atypia in the absence of invasion is not sufficient justification for altering the usual therapeutic strategies for patients with teratomatous metastases . 
alpha-chain disease . report of a case from taiwan . the occurrence of alpha-chain disease ( alpha-cd ) in a chinese patient , a resident of taiwan , is reported . the patient 's clinical features were characterized by severe malabsorption and ran a rapidly deteriorated course . duodenal biopsy showed total villous atrophy with a heavy infiltration of the lamina propria by lymphoplasmacytic cells . colonic biopsy revealed immunoblastic lymphoma . alpha-cd protein was demonstrated in the patient 's serum and concentrated urine by the immunoselection method , and also detected in the cellular infiltrate by immunoperoxidase technique . postmortem examination disclosed that the lymphoma involved not only the entire gastrointestinal tract and mesenteric nodes , but also the retroperitoneal and peripheral lymph nodes . immunoperoxidase studies support the concept of a common clonal origin of the lymphoplasmacytic proliferation and immunoblastic lymphoma in alpha-cd . 
primary pulmonary hemangiopericytoma . eighteen cases of primary pulmonary hemangiopericytoma are reported . these pulmonary sarcomas tend to occur in older individuals , frequently as asymptomatic , non-calcified solitary masses on chest radiographs . morphologically , they have a histology similar to their soft tissue counterparts . no single clinical or histologic feature allowed prediction of biologic aggressiveness in these rare pulmonary sarcomas and the authors recommend that all hemangiopericytomas of lung be considered as potentially malignant . 
reliability of balloon-mesh cytology in detecting esophageal carcinoma in a population of us veterans . a catheter , equipped with a terminal balloon covered with nylon mesh , was developed to study the reliability of abrasive cytology for the diagnosis of esophageal carcinoma . eighty-seven balloon cytology analyses were attempted in 82 subjects . four patients were unable to swallow the balloon . in the 78 successful attempts , the initial diagnoses were : esophagitis ( 34 ) and esophageal carcinoma ( 13 ) , established by endoscopic examination and histologic sampling ; and normal esophagus ( 31 ) confirmed histologically in 25. the remaining 6 controls were younger than 40 years old , without any significant history of smoking , drinking and esophageal symptoms . for esophageal carcinoma , the sensitivity of balloon cytology was 91 % and the specificity was 94 % with four false-positives . balloon cytology was generally well-tolerated and easily performed . this method is now being tested for screening high-risk patients for esophageal carcinoma . 
multiple gastric cancers in the aged with special reference to intramucosal cancers . a histopathologic study was made on 512 specimens of gastric cancer that were surgically obtained from aged patients ( mean age 73 years ) in the tokyo metropolitan geriatric hospital . of the 512 cases studied , 408 were gastric cancer of the glandular type ( 80 % ) and 104 were of the nonglandular type ( 20 % ) . there were 75 cases of gastric cancer consisting of multiple independent cancer lesions and 71 of these were histologically diagnosed as multiple ( 2-5 ) gastric cancers composed of glandular type only . of these 71 cases , 21 cases were multiple intramucosal cancers . these 21 cases of multiple intramucosal cancers were compared with 49 cases of single intramucosal cancers of glandular type in terms of the maximum diameter of each lesion and the location within the stomach . the results suggest that , in aged patients , there is a great possibility that collision of multiple cancer lesions may result in a single intramucosal gastric cancer measuring over 3 cm in diameter . 
metastatic inguinal nodes from an unknown primary neoplasm . a review of 56 cases . fifty-six cases of this uncommon neoplastic manifestation are presented . these cases represent 0.065 % of 86 , 589 new cases of malignant disease seen at the princess margaret hospital from 1968 to 1982. there were 29 men and 27 women . the median age at presentation was 58 years . three major groups were identified : inguinal disease , 24 cases ; unilateral inguinal plus iliac disease , 16 cases ; local plus systemic disease , 16 cases . pathologic subtypes were anaplastic , 24 ; squamous , 11 ; adenocarcinoma , nine ; melanoma , nine ; and others , three . survival at 5 years for all patients was 27 % . among 40 patients who presented with inguinal and inguinal plus iliac disease , survival was 37.5 % at 5 years . initial treatment following biopsy was radiation in 35 , lymph node dissection in eight , and chemotherapy in four . excisional biopsy only was performed in nine cases . there were no treatment-related deaths . the findings observed in this study , in which radiation therapy was employed as initial management in the majority of cases , suggests that radiation therapy is a valid alternative to surgery in the management of this disease . 
orchidectomy alone in stage i nonseminomatous testicular germ cell tumors . fifty-four patients with stage i nonseminomatous testicular germ cell tumors ( nstgct ) were treated from 1982 to 1984. in 1982 and 1983 , the orchidectomy was followed by an exploratory laparotomy to conclude the dissemination study . in 1984 , laparotomy was performed only if indicated . the mean follow-up was 29 months . a relapse occurred in 11 patients ( 20 % ) . the relapse rate in patients who underwent exploratory laparotomy was as high as that in patients who did not . all patients treated for relapse by chemotherapy and surgery entered a complete remission for at least 1 year . it proved impossible to establish criteria for prediction of a subsequent relapse . both serum tumor marker assays and roentgenography are important aids in diagnosing a relapse . with careful follow-up of stage i nstgct patients , a wait-and-see attitude can be adopted until a relapse occurs . 
malignant melanoma of the penis and male urethra . report of nine cases and review of the literature . nine cases of primary malignant melanoma of the penis and male urethra are presented . the age range of the patients was 57-77 years . five patients had intermittent bleeding , one had pain , and three were asymptomatic . six patients had the melanoma on the glans or prepuce and three in the urethra ; two presented with inguinal lymph node metastases . penile amputation was performed in six patients , local excision in three , groin dissection in four , and one was given radiotherapy . postoperative metastases were seen in eight patients , four of whom were treated with surgery , alone or in combination with radiotherapy , and one with chemotherapy . two patients are still living , at 2 and 14 years after diagnosis , respectively . seven patients have died of their tumors , five of them within 2 years . this confirms the consensus of available reports that , irrespective of what type of therapy is used , prognosis is poor in patients with malignant melanoma of the penis and urethra . 
necrobiotic xanthogranuloma with myeloma . a case report . necrobiotic xanthogranuloma is a newly recognized cutaneous manifestation associated with paraproteinemia . necrobiotic xanthogranuloma is distinctive clinically by yellowish-red nodular lesions , often ulcerated , with predilection for the periorbital area and ocular involvement . histologically , it is characterized by the combination of inflammatory xanthogranulomas together with areas of necrobiosis . these skin lesions are associated with a dysglobulinemia and preceded the development of an igg lambda myeloma in a previous patient . hyperlipidemia may be found in some patients . a case of necrobiotic xanthogranuloma is reported , occurring in a 46-year-old man and associated with an igg kappa myeloma . 
salvage coronary angioplasty [ editorial ] 
salvage coronary angioplasty for symptoms refractory to medical therapy . coronary angioplasty was used without surgical back-up in eight patients with angina refractory to medical therapy . after careful evaluation , none of these patients was felt to be a candidate for elective or emergent bypass surgery . angioplasty provided a reasonable means of coronary revascularization . in each patient , extenuating clinical circumstances and reduced left ventricular function led to this approach . angioplasty was angiographically and clinically successful in each patient . 
risk of preangioplasty occlusion and myocardial infarction in one-vessel-disease patients scheduled for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . coronary occlusion or myocardial infarction occurred in 50 of 394 ( 13 % ) one-vessel-disease patients awaiting percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) . to identify risk factors for these events , we first matched the 37 patients who demonstrated occlusion on the immediate preangioplasty repeat angiogram with 37 patients who did not . matching was based on the time interval between angiograms , the date of the procedure , and the site of the lesion . preangioplasty occlusion patients did differ from controls by age ( 47 + / - 11 vs 54 + / - 8 years , p less than .01 ) , smoking status ( 34 / 37 vs 24 / 37 , p less than .01 ) , and angina class ( 2.6 + / - 1.0 vs 2.3 + / - 0.7 , p less than .10 ) at the time of the first angiogram . second , we pooled the data of the 37 preangioplasty occlusion patients with those of the 13 patients with preangioplasty myocardial infarction . the 50 cases with complication ( coronary occlusion or myocardial infarction ) were younger ( 47 + / - 12 vs 54 + / - 8 years , p less than .01 ) , more often smokers ( 42 / 50 vs 24 / 37 , p less than .05 ) , and more symptomatic ( 2.7 + / - 0.8 vs 2.3 + / - 0.7 , p less than .05 ) than the 37 controls . this study suggests that young smokers with severe angina are at high risk of preangioplasty occlusion and / or myocardial infarction ; prompt management of these patients , when considered for ptca , seems advisable . 
papaverine : the ideal coronary vasodilator for investigating coronary flow reserve ? a study of timing , magnitude , reproducibility , and safety of the coronary hyperemic response after intracoronary papaverine . a potent , short-acting vasodilator that induces a maximal hyperemic response of the coronary vascular bed is needed to determine coronary flow reserve . in 12 patients , we measured coronary sinus blood flow by thermodilution over a period of 2 min during which a bolus of 10 mg papaverine was given into the left main coronary artery . this was repeated after 5 min to assess the reproducibility of the changes . the maximal hyperemic response lasted from 24 until 37 sec after papaverine administration . there was no significant difference between the two consecutive hyperemic responses ( student 's t-test for paired observations ) . the mean difference between first and second hyperemic responses at 30 sec was 7.0 % ( sd + / - 6.2 % ) . in conclusion , 10 mg of intracoronary papaverine is a short-lasting and reproducible means of inducing a maximal hyperemic response in the coronary vascular bed and therefore appears to be the ideal agent for investigating coronary flow reserve . 
dipyridamole versus intracoronary injection of contrast medium for the evaluation of coronary reserve in man : a comparative study . coronary reserve can be assessed by the ratio of coronary blood flow after " maximum " vasodilation to control flow . the intravenous infusion of dipyridamole ( 0.56 mg x kg-1 ) is considered to elicit maximum coronary vasodilation . the present study was designed to compare coronary flow and resistance responses to intravenous dipyridamole and intracoronary injection of contrast medium ( ioxaglate ) , this latter technique being frequently used in digital radiology to stimulate hyperemia . the comparison was performed in seven normal patients , nine patients with coronary artery disease , and 16 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy . coronary flow reserve was calculated as the ratio of peak flow after dipyridamole or contrast medium to control flow , and coronary resistance reserve was calculated as the ratio of minimal to control coronary resistance after each stimulus . although flow reserve after dipyridamole was approximately twice that obtained after contrast medium in the normal group ( 4.01 + / - 0.56 vs 2.02 + / - 0.24 ) there was a close and linear relationship between coronary flow and resistance reserve estimated by both techniques ( r = 0.846 , p less than 0.001 for flow reserve ratios , and r = 0.844 p less than 0.001 for resistance reserve ratios ) . however , contrast-induced hyperemia identified 13 / 25 ( 52 % ) of patients with coronary artery disease or dilated cardiomyopathy as having a reduced flow reserve , while dipyridamole revealed a restrained coronary flow reserve in 20 / 25 ( 80 % ) of these patients . similar proportions were obtained when using coronary resistance reserve ( 56 % for contrast vs 80 % for dipyridamole ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
relation between left ventricular diastolic function and exercise tolerance in patients with left ventricular dysfunction . previous studies show no correlation between resting systolic left ventricular performance assessed as the ejection fraction and exercise tolerance . this study examined the relation between left ventricular diastolic performance and exercise tolerance in 63 patients with left ventricular dysfunction ( ejection fraction less than 50 % ) due to known or suspected coronary artery disease . the 51 men and 12 women , aged 54 + / - 8 years ( mean + / - standard deviation ) , underwent symptom-limited upright exercise testing on a bicycle ergometer . the exercise end-points were angina ( n : 5 ) , dyspnea ( n : 16 ) , and fatigue ( n : 42 ) . the patients were divided into three groups : group 1 ( n : 28 ) with normal exercise tolerance ( 9.5 + / - 2.4 minutes ) , group 2 ( n : 18 ) with mild exercise intolerance ( 5.8 + / - 0.5 minutes ) , and group 3 ( n : 17 ) had severe exercise intolerance ( 3.7 + / - 0.9 minutes ) . the three groups did not differ in age , ejection fraction , end-diastolic volume , exercise end-point , exercise heart rate , and left ventricular peak filling rate at rest . the exercise peak filling rate was , however , significantly higher in group 1 ( p = 0.03 ) . stepwise multivariate discriminant analysis of important variables identified the exercise peak filling rate as the only predictor of exercise tolerance ( f = 6.0 ) . thus , variation in exercise peak filling rate may in part explain the variability of exercise tolerance in patients with left ventricular dysfunction ; patients with preserved exercise capacity have higher exercise peak filling rate than those with exercise intolerance . 
intravascular blood velocity in simulated coronary artery stenoses . the profiles of blood velocity within arterial stenoses have been measured using fiber optic laser doppler anemometry ( folda ) . the arterial stenoses were created in arteries and tubes of similar size to human coronary arteries and were perfused in vitro at pressures and flows typical of those in the human circulation . at very low flow rates , flow and peak velocity are linearly related , and thus peak velocity measurement can predict internal cross-sectional areas accurately . with higher flow rates , the intravascular velocities are not linearly related to flow and cannot be used to measure internal cross-sectional area . this is due to flattening of the velocity profile at both more severe stenoses and higher flow rates . 
myocardial preservation with alternate coronary artery occlusion and reversal of flow through collateral vessels . in 1980 , a 46-year-old man suffered occlusion of his left anterior descending coronary artery with preservation of myocardium due to collateral flow from a patent right coronary artery . six years later , unstable angina recurred , this time due to right coronary occlusion but with myocardial preservation due to reversal of collateral flow from his now recanalized left anterior descending artery . 
anomalous unilateral single pulmonary vein mimicking partial anomalous pulmonary venous return . we report a case in which the clinical findings of a partial anomalous pulmonary venous return were present but with termination of the anomalous pulmonary vein into the left atrium . there was hypoplasia of the right lung , dextroposition of the heart , and a loop-like vascular density in the right lung field . cardiac catheterization revealed no shunt , and on pulmonary angiograms , a large common right pulmonary vein draining the entire right lung and entering the left atrium by way of a single orifice . possible embryologic explanations include atresia of the right inferior pulmonary vein and persistence of the ipsilateral superior pulmonary vein . 
the long wire technique for coronary angioplasty . 
the brachial artery method to transluminal internal mammary artery angioplasty . a new catheter technique to perform angioplasty of the right or left internal mammary artery coronary graft utilizing the brachial artery approach is described . utilization of the ipsilateral brachial artery permitted cannulation of the internal mammary artery with preformed polyurethane teflon-lined guide catheters . the coronary dilatation catheter was passed through the guiding catheter into the internal mammary artery . this technique permitted successful access into the ipsilateral mammary artery in eight patients , the left internal mammary artery graft in five and the right in three patients . the angioplasty procedure was successfully performed in seven of eight cases ( spasm of the left internal mammary artery precluded successful dilatation catheter passage in one case ) . no brachial artery complications were encountered . in two cases , angioplasty was successfully performed in additional coronary vessels . follow-up of 1-16 months ( mean : 7.7 months ) revealed no clinical evidence of restenosis . the ipsilateral brachial artery approach utilizing preshaped guiding catheters for visualization and introduction of dilatation catheters into the internal mammary artery graft is a safe and successful approach , and it is an acceptable alternative to the femoral technique . 
new triple-lumen balloon catheter for percutaneous ( pulmonary ) valvuloplasty . percutaneous transluminal balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty has been performed since 1982. in publications , the most critical problems mentioned are severe systemic hypotension and bradycardia due to stasis of blood flow . a triple-lumen balloon was developed to allow more rapid inflation and deflation and to preserve the preexistent forward blood flow during maximal inflation . only a slight systemic hypotension and no bradycardia were seen in the first two patients with pulmonary valve stenosis treated with this type of balloon . thus , the maximal inflation time is not a critical parameter , whereas with the former types of balloon , maximal inflation times were critical , and , if longer than 5 to 10 sec , severe systemic hypotension was registered . we conclude that the triple-lumen pulmonary valve-dilatation balloon catheter is superior to the single-lumen balloon catheter used up to now . 
determinants of capillary permeability : a review of mechanisms based on single capillary studies in the frog . 
membrane electrical properties of vesicular na-ca exchange inhibitors in single atrial myocytes . na-loading single frog atrial cells produce changes in membrane currents that are similar to the creep currents originally observed in na-loaded cardiac purkinje fibers . exposure to the na ionophore , monensin , was used to induce creep currents in isolated atrial cells . the sensitivity of myocardial creep currents to three compounds that have been shown to be inhibitors of na-ca exchange flux activity in isolated sarcolemmal vesicles was assessed . dodecylamine , quinacrine , and the amiloride analog , 3 ' , 4'-dichlorobenzamil block creep currents at concentrations well below those required to block na-dependent ca uptake in sarcolemmal vesicles . the estimated ki 's for inhibition of myocardial creep currents were 3 microm for dodecylamin , 10 micron for quinacrine , and 4 microm for 3 ' , 4'-dichlorobenzamil . the sensitivity of creep currents to these compounds is consistent with the hypothesis that creep currents may represent the electrogenic activity of a na-ca exchange carrier . in an additional series of experiments , the relative specificity of these compounds was tested by examining their effects on myocardial membrane channels . both dodecylamine and 3 ' , 4'-dichlorobenzamil were found to inhibit myocardial ca and k currents over the same range of concentrations in which block of exchange activity occurs . these results seriously question the use of these exchange carrier inhibitors as selective experimental probes for defining the role of na-ca exchange in various physiological processes . 
effect of norepinephrine and cyclic amp on intracellular sodium ion activity and contractile force in canine cardiac purkinje fibers . the effect of norepinephrine on the na+-k+ pump was investigated by simultaneously measuring intracellular sodium ion activity ( aina ) and contractile force of canine cardiac purkinje fibers driven at 1.0 hz in k+-free solution , high k+ solution , and in the presence of tetrodotoxin . in tyrode solution containing 5.4mm [ k+ ] o , 10 ( -6 ) m norepinephrine decreased aina , whereas in k+-free solution 10 ( -6 ) m norepinephrine did not lower aina . 16.2 mm [ k+ ] o decreased aina from 8.8 + / - 0.9 mm to 6.5 + / - 0.5 mm ( mean + / - sd , n = 5 ) . exposure to 10 ( -6 ) m norepinephrine in the presence of high [ k+ ] o further decreased aina by 0.7 + / - 0.4 mm . this further decrease was prevented by exposure to 2.5 x 10 ( -6 ) m strophanthidin ( n = 4 ) . blockade of the fast sodium channel with 5 x 10 ( -6 ) m tetrodotoxin lowered aina from 8.5 + / - 1.3 mm to 7.4 + / - 1.1 mm ( n = 4 ) . exposure to 10 ( -6 ) m norepinephrine in the presence of tetrodotoxin further lowered aina by 0.9 + / - 0.2 mm . we also studied the effects of the analogues of adenosine 3 ' : 5'-cyclic monophosphate , n6 , 2'-0-dibutyryladenosine 3 ' : 5'-cyclic monophosphate , and 8- ( 4-chlorophenylthiol ) -adenosine 3 ' : 5'-cyclic monophosphate on aina and twitch tension . both analogues lowered to aina and increased twitch tension mimicking the effects of norepinephrine . our results support the hypothesis that norepinephrine lowers aina by stimulating the na+-k+ pump in this tissue . this stimulation appears to be mediated by adenosine 3 ' : 5'-cyclic monophosphate and does not appear to be due to intercellular k+ accumulation . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
micropuncture measurement of microvascular pressures in isolated lamb lungs during hypoxia . to study the effect of alveolar hypoxia on the pulmonary circulation of the newborn , we determined the longitudinal distribution of vascular pressures and the distribution of blood flow in isolated blood perfused lungs of newborn lambs during normoxia and hypoxia . we also examined the effect of hypoxia on the slope and intercept of the vascular pressure-flow ( p / q ) relation . in 14 lungs , we used the micropipette servonulling technique to measure pressures in 20-80 micron subpleural arterioles and venules during normoxia and hypoxia at constant blood flow . in 5 other lungs , we used radiolabelled microspheres to determine the effect of hypoxia on regional distribution of blood flow . under baseline normoxic conditions , segmental pressure drops in arteries , microvessels , and veins were approximately equal . during hypoxia pulmonary artery pressure always increased , resulting in a 60 % increase in total vascular resistance . all segmental pressure drops increased with hypoxia . arterial and venous pressure drops increased by 80 and 70 % respectively , contributing almost equally to the increase in total pulmonary vascular resistance . regional distribution of blood flow was uniform during normoxia and was unchanged during hypoxia . hypoxia increased both the slope and intercept of the p / q relation significantly , with an increase in fluid filtration rate . we conclude that in the newborn lamb alveolar hypoxia leads to pulmonary arterial and venous constriction , resulting in increased microvascular pressure and fluid filtration . 
superoxide dismutase prevents the thrombin-induced increase in lung vascular permeability : role of superoxide in mediating the alterations in lung fluid balance . we investigated the effects of superoxide dismutase ( sod ) and sod linked to ficoll ( mol . wt = 400 , 000 ) on the changes in pulmonary transvascular fluid and protein exchange following pulmonary microembolism induced with alpha-thrombin . studies were made in chronically prepared unanesthetized sheep with lung lymph fistulas . control thrombin challenged sheep ( n = 5 ) were compared to animals infused with sod ( the sod-thrombin group , n = 5 ) or animals infused with sod linked to high molecular weight ficoll ( the ficoll-sod-thrombin group , n = 6 ) . the ficoll-sod-thrombin animals were also compared to animals infused with ficoll alone ( the ficoll-thrombin group , n = 4 ) . in the control-thrombin group , thrombin induced sustained increases in the pulmonary transvascular protein clearance ( pulmonary lymph flow x lymph / plasma protein concentration ratio ) and pulmonary vascular resistance ( pvr ) . in the sod-thrombin group , thrombin initially increased both pulmonary transvascular protein clearance and pvr ; however , the later increases in protein clearance and pvr were blunted . the pulmonary reflection coefficients for total protein ( sigma ) , a measure of vascular permeability to protein , decreased from a value of 0.70 + / - 0.03 in normal sheep to 0.60 + / - 0.01 following thrombin challenge ( p less than 0.05 ) indicating an increase in lung vascular permeability . the sigma value in the sod-treated animals was 0.70 + / - 0.02 , indicating a protective effect of sod . the infusion of the ficoll-sod complex also attenuated the increases in pulmonary transvascular protein clearance and pvr after thrombin . however , the infusion of ficoll alone induced a similar protection . the lymph from the sod-thrombin and ficoll-sod-thrombin groups prevented the reduction of ferricytochrome c by xanthine / xanthine oxidase , whereas , the lymph from the ficoll-thrombin animals did not have this effect , indicating sod activity was present in the animals receiving the enzyme but not in the group infused with ficoll alone . differences in the degree of intravascular coagulation could not explain the response to ficoll since the decreases in fibrinogen concentration following the thrombin were similar in all the groups . since ficoll and related dextrans may modify neutrophil function , in particular neutrophil adherence to the endothelium , we examined the effects of ficoll on neutrophil adherence . the results indicated that when ficoll was added to the endothelial medium ficoll reduced the increase adherence of neutrophils to the endothelial cell monolayer . therefore , ficoll as a carrier for sod may provide a direct protection in models of lung vascular injury that are dependent on neutrophils . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) 
induction of delayed afterdepolarizations and triggered activity in canine purkinje fibers by lysophosphoglycerides . lysophosphoglycerides accumulate in ischemic myocardium and induce electrophysiologic alterations in normoxic tissue in vitro closely resembling those seen with ischemia in vivo . delayed afterdepolarizations and triggered activity may be particularly important in the pathogenesis of arrhythmias in the ischemic heart . the present study was performed to determine whether lysophosphatidylcholine ( lpc ) , at concentrations comparable to those present in ischemic myocardium , can induce delayed afterdepolarizations and / or triggered activity in normoxic canine purkinje fibers . in the present study , as little as 75 microm lpc was found to induce delayed afterdepolarizations and as little as 100 microm lpc was found to induce delayed afterdepolarizations and triggered activity even at low cycle lengths . the amplitude of the induced delayed afterdepolarizations was enhanced by augmentation of the extracellular concentration of calcium ( 7 mm ) or by exogenous epinephrine ( 10 ( -9 ) to 10 ( -6 ) m ) . the amplitude was decreased by verapamil ( 1 mg / l ) or mn++ ( 2.5 mm ) . epinephrine at a concentration of 10 ( -6 ) m also initiated triggered activity in purkinje fibers exposed to lpc ( 75 microm ) , a response blocked by l-propranolol ( 2 x 10 ( -7 ) m and 10 ( -6 ) m ) but not by the alpha 1-adrenergic blocking agent be-2254 ( 10 ( -6 ) m ) . delayed afterdepolarizations induced by lpc ( 75 microm ) and epinephrine ( 10 ( -6 ) m ) persisted even in the presence of acidosis ( ph 6.7 ) and hyperkalemia ( [ k+ ] o = 7 mm ) . thus , delayed afterdepolarizations and triggered activity induced by lpc may contribute to the induction and / or maintenance of arrhythmias early after the onset of myocardial ischemia . however , because of the reversal of these effects after superfusion with media devoid of lpc , they may occur with ischemia in vivo but not be seen in tissue isolated from ischemic regions and evaluated in vitro . 
effect of adenosine on atrioventricular conduction . i : site and characterization of adenosine action in the guinea pig atrioventricular node . adenosine has a negative dromotropic effect and modulates hypoxia-induced atrioventricular ( av ) conduction delay . to further characterize the negative dromotropic effect of adenosine in the guinea pig heart , we determined the site of adenosine-induced av conduction block ; the effect of uptake and deamination of adenosine on its concentration-negative dromotropic effect , and the adenosine receptor that mediates this action . in isolated av node preparations ( n = 16 ) , adenosine in a dose-dependent manner decreased significantly the duration and amplitude of the action potential of atrionodal and nodal cells and , in addition , markedly depressed the maximum rate of rise of the action potential of nodal cells . at high concentrations ( greater than 20 microm ) , adenosine rendered nodal cells inexcitable . in isolated perfused hearts ( n = 7 ) , adenosine ( 5.7 microm ) prolonged total av conduction time by 21 + / - 2 msec . of this prolongation , 83 % was due to an increase in the nodal-to-his-bundle interval and the remaining 17 % to an increase in the atrionodal to nodal interval . infusion of adenosine to cause a 50 % increase ( ec50 ) in atria-to-his bundle ( ah ) interval prolongation resulted in a perfusate ( arterial ) adenosine concentration of 5.0 + / - 0.6 microm and effluent ( venous ) adenosine concentrations of 2.8 + / - 0.4 microm , i.e. , an arteriovenous difference of 44 % ( n = 4 ) . when adenosine uptake and deamination were inhibited with dipyridamole ( 0.5 microm ) plus erythro-9- ( 2-hydroxy-3-nonyl ) adenine ( 5 microm ) , respectively , the ec50s were 0.28 + / - 0.02 ( perfusate ) and 0.32 + / - 0.03 microm ( effluent ) . these data indicate that when nucleoside metabolism is inhibited , arterial and venous concentrations of adenosine reach equilibrium . in an additional 10 hearts , the following rank order of potency of adenosine agonists in causing ah interval prolongation was found : n6-cyclopentyladenosine greater than n6- ( l-2-phenyl-isopropyl ) adenosine greater than 5'-n-ethylcarboxyamidoadenosine greater than or equal to 2-chloroadenosine greater than adenosine , which is compatible with activation of an a1-type receptor . in summary : the site of adenosine-induced av conduction block is the nodal zone of the av node , when adenosine uptake and deamination are inhibited , adenosine in concentrations similar to that released by hypoxia causes significant ah interval prolongation , and the adenosine receptor mediating the negative dromotropic effect of adenosine is of the a1-type . 
effect of adenosine on atrioventricular conduction . ii : modulation of atrioventricular node transmission by adenosine in hypoxic isolated guinea pig hearts . adenosine as well as hypoxia and ischemia are known to cause atrioventricular conduction block . to test the hypothesis that adenosine is the primary mediator of hypoxia-induced atrioventricular conduction delay in isolated perfused guinea pig hearts , we characterized a ) the time courses of hypoxia-induced adenosine release and delay in atrioventricular conduction , b ) the relationships between oxygen tension , adenosine concentration in the effluent , and atria-to-his-bundle interval , and c ) the adenosine receptor mediating the negative dromotropic effect of hypoxia . oxygen tension and effluent adenosine levels were linearly related with a correlation coefficient ( r ) of -0.85 and a slope of -6.3 + / - 0.37 pmol / min / g / torr . likewise , oxygen tension and atria-to-his-bundle interval prolongation were linearly related with r = -0.85 and a slope of -0.180 + / - 0.013 msec / torr . the ec50 of effluent adenosine in causing atria-to-his-bundle prolongation was 0.26 + / - 0.02 microm . adenosine deaminase , an enzyme that deaminates adenosine to inosine and is limited to the extracellular space , significantly attenuated ( 61 % ) the atria-to-his-bundle interval prolongation caused by hypoxia . this prolongation was further reduced ( 81 % ) by a combination of adenosine deaminase and theophylline , an adenosine receptor blocker . adenosine deaminase also reduced ( by 95 % ) the atria-to-his-bundle interval prolongation in normoxic recipient hearts caused by the effluent of hypoxic donor hearts . several adenosine antagonists , i.e. , theophylline , 8-phenyltheophylline , and 8- ( p-sulfophenyl ) theophylline antagonized in a dose-dependent manner the negative dromotropic effect of exogenous adenosine and hypoxia . schild analysis of the antagonism of hypoxia-induced atria-to-his-bundle interval prolongation by 8- ( p-sulfophenyl ) theophylline yielded the following pa2 values : 5.30 + / - 0.25 and 5.28 + / - 0.31 using oxygen tension and effluent adenosine vs . ah interval prolongation , respectively . 8- ( p-sulfophenyl ) theophylline also antagonized to an equal extent atria-to-his-bundle interval prolongations of similar magnitude caused either by adenosine or hypoxia . we conclude that 1 ) adenosine is the primary mediator of hypoxia-induced atrioventricular conduction delay , and 2 ) the adenosine receptor that mediates the negative dromotropic effect of hypoxia is similar to that of exogenous adenosine . 
voltage-tension relations in single frog atrial cardiac cells . voltage-clamp experiments were performed on isolated single frog ( rana catesbeiana or rana pipiens ) atrial cells to determine the voltage-contraction relations of the single cardiac cell . the contractile responses of the single cell associated with long duration ( 3 second ) depolarizing steps consisted of a rise to peak ( phasic ) followed by a decay to a sustained contraction ( tonic ) . these phasic-tonic type contractile responses could be obtained under conditions where membrane potential was well controlled along the entire length of the cell . thus , the data obtained on the single cell indicate that the phasic-tonic contractile response is the characteristic contractile response of frog atrial tissue . the voltage dependence of the extent of relaxation to the tonic component following the peak of the contraction was affected dramatically by the intracellular sodium concentration . this result indicates that both the relaxation following peak contraction as well as the tonic contraction are related to calcium control via the sodium-calcium exchanger . the data also indicate that calcium entry via the inward calcium current is required for the contractile response to have a phasic component . these data indicate that calcium entry via the inward calcium current followed by the sodium-calcium exchanger first reducing and then maintaining the intracellular calcium level produces the characteristic phasic-tonic contractile response . 
myosin isoenzymes of vascular smooth and cardiac muscle in the spontaneously hypertensive and normotensive male and female rat : a comparative study . cardiac hypertrophy in hypertensive subjects , its biochemical markers , and functional consequences are of great clinical importance but still unclear . we observed a shift of the ventricular isomyosin of adult spontaneously hypertensive ( h ) rats of both sexes to the v3 form and a decreased myofibrillar atpase activity in the h animals when compared to normotensive ( n ) controls . compared to the male h rats , age-matched female h animals revealed a lower blood pressure , the same or even an elevated magnitude of cardiac hypertrophy , a different ventricular isomyosin pattern , and a higher myofibrillar atpase activity . in female h rats the v1 and v3 isomyosins were equally distributed ( 35 % v1 and 35 % v3 ) , but in male h animals the v3 was predominant ( 24 % v1 and 45 % v3 ) . the ca2+-regulated mg2+-dependent myofibrillar atpase of the rat ventricle correlated positively with the amount of v1 when measured at pca 5 ( maximum activation ) . at submaximum ca2+-concentrations ( pca 6.9-5.9 ) the myofibrillar atpase activities were not changed with the proportion of v1 . the cooperativity of the ca2+-activation of the myofibrillar atpase increased with increasing amount of v1 ( hill-coefficient 3.7 with 100 % v1 ) and decreased with increased proportion of v3 ( hill-coefficient 1.3 at 45 % v3 ) . two myosin isoenzymes were detected in the aorta of rats , a slow migrating ( s2 ) and a fast migrating ( s1 ) form having both a higher mobility than the ventricular isomyosins . only one band was observed in the portal vein , which revealed the same mobility as s2 . hypertension did not change the appearance of these vascular smooth muscle isomyosins neither in male nor in female animals . 
subtypes of beta-adrenergic receptors in bovine coronary arteries . whether large coronary artery dilation induced by beta-adrenergic stimulation is mediated by beta 1- or beta 2-adrenergic receptors remains controversial . this problem is particularly difficult to address in vivo due to the concomitant increase in coronary blood flow with beta-adrenergic stimulation , which by itself can dilate large coronary arteries . to reconcile this problem , 5 calves were instrumented with intraaortic and intracoronary ( i.c. ) catheters , ultrasonic diameter transducers , doppler flow transducers , and hydraulic occluders on the left circumflex coronary artery . two to six weeks following surgery , beta-adrenergic agonists were administered i.c. to avoid complicating systemic effects . isoproterenol ( 0.0025 micrograms / kg , a beta 1 + beta 2-adrenergic agonist ) increased coronary diameter ( 7.1 + / - 0.8 % from 5.80 + / - 0.58 mm ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . similar increases ( p less than 0.01 ) in coronary diameter occurred with prenalterol ( 0.4 micrograms / kg , beta 1-adrenergic agonist ) ( 9.5 + / - 1.4 % ) and pirbuterol ( 0.25 micrograms / kg , beta 2-adrenergic agonist ) ( 8.1 + / - 1.2 % ) . when coronary blood flow was prevented from rising with the hydraulic constrictor , increases in coronary diameter to all three beta-adrenergic agonists were not attenuated . large coronary artery dilation with prenalterol and pirbuterol was abolished with beta 1- and beta 2-adrenergic receptor blockade , respectively , while neither beta 1- nor beta 2-adrenergic blockade alone abolished the large coronary artery dilation with isoproterenol . to identify the predominant subtype of beta-adrenergic receptor , competitive inhibition curves utilizing 125i-cyanopindolol ( 125i-cyp ) as the radiolabel versus isoproterenol , epinephrine , and norepinephrine were generated in membrane preparations from calf heart ( predominant beta 1 ) , calf lung ( predominant beta 2 ) and calf coronary artery . the coronary artery membrane preparations demonstrated an intermediate pattern . competition curves with selective beta 1- and beta 2-adrenergic receptor agonists and antagonists again demonstrated a pattern for coronary artery intermediate to that of heart and lung , further confirming the presence of both beta-adrenergic receptor subtypes in large coronary arteries , with a ratio of beta 1 : beta 2 of 1.5-2.0 : 1.0 . thus , large coronary arteries of the calf contain both beta 1- and beta 2-adrenergic receptors identified utilizing ligand binding techniques , and stimulation of both receptor subtypes in the intact conscious animal results in large coronary artery dilation , independent of blood-flow-mediated vasodilation . 
possible role for adenosine in local regulation of absorptive hyperemia in rat intestine . to test whether extracellular adenosine participates in the local regulation of intestinal blood flow during nutrient absorption , the serosa of the jejunum was continuously suffused with adenosine deaminase ( 7 micrograms protein / ml ) or theophylline ( 10 ( -4 ) m ) in ringer 's solution . using video microscopy , blood flow was calculated in submucosal arterioles from diameter and red cell velocity measurements . after a steady-state baseline , oleic acid ( 20 mm ) + glucose ( 56 mm ) were added to a bile salt solution suffusing the mucosa . baseline arteriolar diameters and blood flows were 52 + / - 2 micron and 20 + / - 2 nl / sec with the serosal suffusate containing ringer 's ; these values were not significantly altered by theophylline or deaminase treatment . during suffusion of the mucosa with a nutrient solution , diameter and blood flow transiently increased and these responses were not altered by deaminase or theophylline . thereafter , diameter and blood flow stabilized at lower values for the duration of absorption . diameter and blood flow were increased to 111 + / - 1 % and 134 + / - 5 % of control during absorption with ringer 's ; the corresponding values were significantly lower with deaminase or theophylline . after absorption , diameter and blood flow stabilized near baseline with ringer 's within 7-12 minutes ; the corresponding values were significantly lower with deaminase or theophylline for at least 30 minutes . since deaminase and theophylline produced similar effects on absorptive hyperemia , adenosine might participate with other factors in the local regulation of that response . adenosine applied to the serosa caused dose-dependent increases in calculated blood flow with a threshold near 10 ( -5 ) m and a maximum near 10 ( -3 ) m . in contrast , even 10 ( -2 ) m adenosine in the mucosal suffusate did not increase blood flow above baseline . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
the detection of silent ischemia : cautions and precautions . 
blood pressure and echocardiographic measures in children : the bogalusa heart study . m mode echocardiograms were obtained from 654 healthy subjects , 7 to 22 years of age , whose diastolic blood pressure levels remained in the same height- , race- , and sex-specific decile during two biannual examinations . echocardiographic measures of heart size , obtained according to the recommendations of the american society for echocardiography , were compared across the entire systolic and diastolic blood pressure distributions . echocardiographic indexes of left heart size varied as a function of both blood pressure levels and body size . significant positive correlations were present between systolic blood pressure and different measures of left ventricular size . left ventricular wall thickness in systole correlated with systolic blood pressure ( r = .42 , p less than .0001 ) , and persistence of this relationship was noted after adjustment for body size . left ventricular wall thickness in diastole correlated with blood pressure before adjustment ( r = .31 , p less than .0001 ) , but the relationship was not significant after adjustment for body size . the ratio of left ventricular thickness to chamber size ( systole ) correlated with systolic blood pressure levels both before and after adjustment for body size ( r = .20 and r = .22 , p less than .001 ) . male subjects of both races demonstrated significantly higher adjusted left ventricular mass , left ventricular wall thickness , and left ventricular chamber size . adjusted left ventricular wall stress was significantly related to both systolic ( r = .14 ) and diastolic blood pressure levels ( r = .14 , p less than .001 ) . measures of left ventricular wall thickness increased throughout the entire blood pressure distribution , indicating a consistent trend rather than a threshold effect seen only in the highest blood pressure groups . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
regional and global left ventricular function in infants with anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary trunk : preoperative and postoperative assessment . anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary trunk ( alca ) remains a diagnostic as well as a therapeutic problem . the purposes of this study were : ( 1 ) to analyze left ventricular mechanics , including regional wall motion , in infants with alca , ( 2 ) to determine if the pattern of wall motion in infants with alca distinguishes these patients from those with congestive cardiomyopathy of other causes , and ( 3 ) to evaluate the potential for recovery of left ventricular function after successful restoration of a dual coronary artery system . left ventricular mechanics were studied before and serially after surgery in six infants ( 2 to 13 months old ) with alca . fifteen age-matched normal subjects and seven age-matched patients with idiopathic congestive cardiomyopathy were also studied for comparison . preoperatively , the end-diastolic volume in infants with alca was about four times larger than normal and did not differ from that in infants with cm ; the myocardial volume was also about three times larger than normal , similar to that in the patients with cm . the myocardial volume / end-diastolic volume ratio was extremely low in patients with alca and in those with cm . the infants with alca did not exhibit specific segmental wall motion abnormalities but rather had global hypokinesis indistinguishable from that in the patients with cm . after successful repair , end-diastolic volume index rapidly decreased , reaching near normal values by 7 to 22 months after surgery , while myocardial volume index decreased at a slower rate , leading to an early phase of " overshoot hypertrophy , " but reaching normal values by 7 to 22 months after surgery.+ 
the association of increased levels of intermediate-density lipoproteins with smoking and with coronary artery disease . studies were undertaken to determine whether there is an association between elevated levels of intermediate-density lipoproteins ( idl ) ( sf 12-60 lipoproteins ) and coronary artery disease . forty-five to sixty-five-year-old men with objectively documented coronary artery disease ( n = 58 ) who were free of known risk factors ( diabetes , hypertension , obesity , hyperuricemia , and hypercholesterolemia ) were compared with similar men who were free of coronary artery disease ( n = 52 ) . smokers could not be excluded . the coronary artery disease group had a higher rate of cigarette smoking ( ns , due to large variations ) ; higher concentrations of triglycerides in their plasma ( p = .003 ) and higher levels of very low-density lipoproteins ( vldl ) ( p = .007 ) , idl ( p = .016 ) , and low-density lipoproteins ( ldl ) ( p = .04 ) ; as well as somewhat lower levels of high-density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol ( p = .04 ) . chi-squared analysis demonstrated a strong association between coronary artery disease and idl apolipoprotein ( apo ) b ( p = .006 ) , coronary artery disease and idl triglyceride ( p = .032 ) , and coronary artery disease and idl apo b times idl triglyceride ( p = .006 ) when the top quintile of the population was compared with the bottom quintile for each of these variables . stepwise logistic regression analysis resulted in rejection of an association between coronary artery disease and hdl cholesterol , plasma triglyceride , vldl triglyceride , or ldl triglyceride . however , it did show that coronary artery disease was most strongly associated with smoking and that the second strongest association was with idl . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
circadian variation in the frequency of sudden cardiac death . to determine whether sudden cardiac death exhibits a circadian rhythm similar to that recently demonstrated for nonfatal myocardial infarction , we analyzed the time of day of sudden cardiac death as indicated by death certificates of 2203 individuals dying out of the hospital in massachusetts in 1983. the data reveal a prominent circadian variation of sudden cardiac death , with a low incidence during the night and an increased incidence from 7 to 11 a.m. the pattern is remarkably similar to that reported for nonfatal myocardial infarction and episodes of myocardial ischemia . the finding that the frequency of sudden cardiac death is increased in the morning is compatible with hypotheses that sudden cardiac death results from ischemia or from a primary arrhythmic event . further study of the physiologic changes occurring in the morning may provide new information supporting or refuting these hypotheses , thereby leading to increased understanding and possible prevention of sudden cardiac death . 
immediate effect of expiratory loading on left ventricular stroke volume . while the steady-state effects of positive pleural pressure on the circulation have been extensively studied , less is known about the immediate effects of positive intrathoracic pressure on cardiac dynamics . therefore , we performed electrocardiographically gated radionuclide ventriculography with a respiratory gating technique in nine healthy subjects during quiet breathing and during expiration against a 24 cm h2o expiratory threshold load . during expiration , respiratory loading caused an increase in stroke counts by 29.4 % ( p less than .001 ) due to an increase in end-diastolic counts of 26.1 % ( p less than .001 ) . end-systolic counts also rose 18.8 % ( p less than .05 ) . the ejection fraction did not change significantly . these findings indicate that the increase in left ventricular stroke volume that occurs during the first 1 or 2 beats of a loaded expiration is due to an increase in left ventricular filling and not to augmentation of left ventricular ejection . this immediate increase in pulmonary venous return may reflect increased distensibility of the left ventricle due to decreased filling of the right ventricle . 
early atrial fibrillation during evolving myocardial infarction : a consequence of impaired left atrial perfusion . seven of 214 patients ( 3 % ) with acute myocardial infarction ( 120 inferior and 94 anterior ) developed atrial fibrillation within 3 hr of the onset of chest pain . all seven patients had an inferior infarction and in all seven the left circumflex artery was occluded proximal to the origin of its left atrial circumflex branch . in five patients this occlusion was acute and was the cause of inferior infarction and in the remaining two patients the occlusion was old and the inferior infarction was due to an acute occlusion of the right coronary artery that also supplied extensive collaterals to the previously occluded left circumflex artery . all seven patients also had impaired perfusion to the atrioventricular nodal artery , as evidenced by total occlusion proximal to its origin or by stenosis proximal to its origin associated with second- or third-degree atrioventricular block . in contrast , early atrial fibrillation did not occur in any of the 18 patients with inferior myocardial infarction due to acute occlusion of the distal left circumflex artery or in any of the five patients with inferior infarction due to acute occlusion of the proximal left circumflex artery if perfusion to the atrioventricular nodal artery was not impaired . early atrial fibrillation did not occur in any of the 90 patients with inferior infarction due to acute occlusion of the right coronary artery , including 12 patients with occlusion proximal to the sinus nodal artery , but without coexistent occlusion of the left circumflex artery . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
increased occurrence of left ventricular thrombi during early treatment with timolol in patients with acute myocardial infarction . to examine whether early intervention with timolol influences the occurrence of left ventricular thrombi in acute anterior myocardial infarction , 40 patients with acute anterior myocardial infarction admitted to hospital within 6 hr of onset of symptoms were randomly assigned to receive intravenous followed by oral timolol maleate or placebo . five ( 25 % ) of 20 patients in the placebo group and 14 ( 73.7 % ) of 19 patients with confirmed infarction in the timolol group developed a left ventricular apical thrombus as detected by two-dimensional echocardiography from 2 to 10 days after inclusion ( p less than .005 ) . patients received anticoagulants only after a left ventricular thrombus had been diagnosed . only one patient with thrombus suffered peripheral embolization ( timolol group ) . the treatment groups were comparable with respect to location of regional left ventricular dysfunction , electrocardiographic changes , and infarct size estimated by creatine kinase release . however , computer-assisted regional wall motion analysis demonstrated significantly reduced apical wall motion in the timolol group compared with the placebo group ( p less than .01 ) . also , the mean heart rate during the first 10 days after the acute infarction was reduced by 13 % in the timolol group ( p less than .001 ) . the reduction in heart rate and left ventricular apical wall motion caused by timolol in patients with acute anterior myocardial infarction may increase the occurrence of left ventricular thrombi . 
fibrinopeptide a and platelet factor levels in unstable angina pectoris . fibrinopeptide a , platelet factor 4 , beta-thromboglobulin , thromboxane b2 , and 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha were estimated by radioimmunoassay on venous plasma samples taken within 48 hr of admission from 16 consecutive patients with unstable angina and 15 patients with stable angina matched for clinical variables . the ratio of circulating platelet aggregates , platelet aggregation to increasing concentrations of adp ( 0.455 to 1.82 micrograms / ml ) , and platelet thromboxane b2 production in vitro were also tested . the two groups of patients were statistically similar in terms of sex distribution , age , presence of risk factors , use of medication , extent of coronary artery disease and history of previous myocardial infarction . mean plasma levels of fibrinopeptide a were 2.7 + / - 0.4 ng / ml ( geometric means + / - sem , range 1.5 to 5.5 ) in patients with stable angina vs 5.5 + / - 1.8 ng / ml ( range 2.4 to 32 ; p less than .001 ) in those with unstable angina . in the latter group , after 6 to 8 days , fibrinopeptide a levels decreased to 3.6 + / - 0.5 ng / ml ( range 1.5 to 9.3 ; p less than .04 vs admission ) . all other variables measured were statistically identical in the two groups . we conclude that plasma fibrinopeptide a levels , as opposed to platelet factors , discriminate between patients with unstable and stable angina , indicating an activation of the coagulation system in unstable angina . 
limited coronary flow reserve after dipyridamole in patients with ergonovine-induced coronary vasoconstriction . patients with anginal chest pain despite angiographically normal coronary arteries and left ventricles may have abnormalities of coronary flow reserve . twenty-five patients were found to have limited flow reserve during rapid atrial pacing after administration of 0.15 to 0.30 mg iv ergonovine , associated with precipitation of chest pain and hemodynamic and metabolic evidence of myocardial ischemia . no significant narrowing occurred in epicardial coronary artery luminal diameter . an additional 15 patients had no chest pain during pacing ; because they developed significantly higher great cardiac vein flow and lower coronary resistance they were considered to have normal vasodilator reserve . after administration of dipyridamole ( 0.5 to 0.75 mg / kg iv ) , the lowest absolute levels to which coronary resistance fell ( 0.79 + / - 0.23 vs 0.47 + / - 0.12 mm hg x min / ml ; p less than .001 ) and the maximal absolute levels to which great cardiac vein flow rose ( 134 + / - 34 vs 202 + / - 45 ml / min ; p less than .001 ) were impaired in the 25 patients with ergonovine-induced flow limitation compared with the 15 patients without flow limitation after ergonovine . in addition , 18 of the 25 patients with limited flow reserve after dipyridamole experienced chest pain despite an increase in coronary flow . in these patients , dipyridamole-induced increased flow across small prearteriolar coronary arteries , which were narrowed because of abnormal tonus or sensitivity to vasoconstrictor stimuli , could have resulted in a transmural redistribution of blood flow away from the subendocardium , precipitating subendocardial ischemia . these studies suggest that patients with anginal chest pain despite normal epicardial coronary arteries may have exaggerated coronary responses to vasoconstrictor stimuli , which can result in myocardial ischemia during stress , as well as attenuated responses to coronary vasodilator stimuli . 
color doppler assessment of mitral regurgitation with orthogonal planes . we evaluated 147 patients with adequate color doppler and angiographic studies for mitral regurgitation . sixty-five patients had no mitral regurgitation by both color doppler and angiography and 82 patients had mitral regurgitation by both techniques . thus the sensitivity and specificity of color doppler for the detection of mitral regurgitation was 100 % . three two-dimensional echocardiographic planes ( parasternal long and short axis , apical four-chamber view ) were used to analyze variables of the mitral regurgitant jet signals in the left atrium . the best correlation with angiography was obtained when the regurgitant jet area ( rja ) ( maximum or average from three planes ) expressed as a percentage of the left atrial area ( laa ) obtained in the same plane as the maximum regurgitant area was considered . the maximum rja / laa was under 20 % in 34 of 36 patients with angiographic grade i mitral regurgitation , between 20 % and 40 % in 17 of 18 patients with grade ii mitral regurgitation , and over 40 % in 26 of 28 patients with severe mitral regurgitation . maximum rja / laa also correlated with angiographic regurgitant fractions ( r = .78 ) obtained in 21 of 40 patients in normal sinus rhythm and with no evidence of associated aortic regurgitation . other variables of the regurgitant jet such as maximal linear and transverse dimensions , maximal area , or maximal area expressed as a percentage of the laa in one or two planes correlated less well with angiography . color doppler is a useful noninvasive technique that is not only highly sensitive and specific in the identification of mitral regurgitation but also provides accurate estimation of its severity . 
single-chamber cardiac pacing with activity-initiated chronotropic response : evaluation by cardiopulmonary exercise testing . in this study , sequential cardiopulmonary exercise testing was used to assess the physiologic benefits of a single-chamber ventricular pacing system that utilizes a piezoceramic sensor to adjust heart rate by detecting " physical activity . " an initial exercise test was conducted with the pacemaker programmed ( based on a randomization table ) to either the fixed rate ( vvi , 70 beats / min ) or rate-variable ( vvi-act ) mode , and the results were compared with those obtained during a second exercise test in which the pacemaker was programmed to the alternate pacing mode . a 1.5 to 2 hr rest period was permitted between exercise tests , each of which consisted of a symptom-limited constant speed ( 3.0 mph ) balke protocol with 2 min stages commencing at 0.0 % grade with increments of 2.5 % at end of each stage . compared with findings during fixed-rate vvi pacing , vvi-act pacing was associated with greater exercise-induced positive chronotropic response ( mean maximum heart rate vvi-act 128 + / - 15.3 beats / min vs vvi 90 + / - 28.4 beats / min ; p less than .01 ) , prolongation of exercise duration ( vvi-act 10.2 + / - 3.8 min vs vvi 7.7 + / - 2.5 min ; p less than .01 ) , increased peak oxygen consumption ( vvi-act 1617 + / - 656 ml o2 / min vs vvi 1325 + / - 451 ml o2 / min ; p less than .01 ) , and onset of anaerobic threshold at a higher oxygen consumption ( vvi-act 1208 + / - 343 ml o2 / min vs vvi 1064 + / - 377 ml o2 / min : p less than .01 ) . additionally , of 44 comparable exercise stages tested in the two pacing modes , perceived exertion ( assessed by a numerical grading system ) was lower in 38 of 44 instances during vvi-act compared with vvi pacing . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
assessment of left ventricular and aortic valve function after aortic balloon valvuloplasty in adult patients with critical aortic stenosis . preliminary reports have documented the utility of balloon aortic valvuloplasty as a palliative treatment for high-risk patients with critical aortic stenosis , but the effect of this procedure on cardiac performance has not been studied in detail . accordingly , 32 patients ( mean age 79 years ) with long-standing , calcific aortic stenosis were treated at the time of cardiac catheterization with balloon dilatation of the aortic valve , and serial changes in left ventricular and valvular function were followed before and after valvuloplasty by radionuclide ventriculography , determination of systolic time intervals , and doppler echocardiography . prevalvuloplasty examination revealed heavily calcified aortic valves in all patients , a mean peak-to-peak aortic valve gradient of 77 + / - 27 mm hg , a mean fick cardiac output of 4.6 + / - 1.4 liters / min , and a mean calculated aortic valve area of 0.6 + / - 0.2 cm2 . subsequent balloon dilatation with 12 to 23 mm valvuloplasty balloons resulted in a fall in aortic valve gradient to 39 + / - 15 mm hg , an increase in cardiac output to 5.2 + / - 1.8 liters / min , and an increase in calculated aortic valve area to 0.9 + / - 0.3 cm2 . individual hemodynamic responses varied considerably , with some patients showing major increases in valve area , while others demonstrated only small increases . in no case was balloon dilatation accompanied by evidence of embolic phenomena . supravalvular aortography obtained in 13 patients demonstrated no or a mild ( less than or equal to 1+ ) increase in aortic insufficiency . serial radionuclide ventriculography in patients with a depressed left ventricular ejection fraction ( i.e. , that less than or equal to 55 % ) revealed a small increase in ejection fraction from 40 + / - 13 % to 46 + / - 12 % ( p less than .03 ) . in addition , for the study group as a whole there was a decrease in left ventricular end-diastolic volume index ( 113 + / - 38 to 101 + / - 37 ml / m2 , p less than .003 ) , a fall in stroke-volume ratio ( 1.49 + / - 0.44 to 1.35 + / - 0.33 , p less than .04 ) , and no immediate change in left ventricular peak filling rate ( 2.05 + / - 0.77 to 2.21 + / - 0.65 end-diastolic counts / sec , p = ns ) . serial m mode echocardiography and phonocardiography showed an increase in aortic valve excursion ( 0.5 + / - 0.2 to 0.8 + / - 0.2 cm , p less than .001 ) , a decrease in time to one-half carotid upstroke ( 80 + / - 30 to 60 + / - 10 msec , p less than .001 ) , and a small decrease in left ventricular ejection time ( 0.44 + / - 0.03 to 0.42 + / - 0.02 sec , p less than .001 ) . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) 
central nervous system effects of beta-adrenergic-blocking drugs : the role of ancillary properties . among the side effects commonly reported with the use of beta-blockers are symptoms related to the central nervous system ( cns ) . in this study we compared the effects of four beta-blockers with different ancillary properties ( atenolol , metoprolol , propranolol , and pindolol ) and placebo on objective and subjective measures of cns function in 30 healthy male subjects . all subjects were randomly assigned to a double-blind , placebo controlled , latin-square design study in which five 1 week periods of drug or placebo administration were separated by 2 week washout periods . laboratory evaluations were conducted at the end of each treatment period , and included multistage exercise stress testing ; questionnaire assessments of mood state , sexual function , and sleep habits ; tests of psychomotor function ; and overnight polysomnographic measures of sleep . significant effects on sleep continuity were observed for each of the lipophilic drugs , as reflected in the number of awakenings ( pindolol = 6.4 + / - 5.0 ; propranolol = 6.3 + / - 3.2 ; metoprolol = 7.2 + / - 4.7 ; atenolol = 3.6 + / - 2.9 ; placebo = 3.9 + / - 2.7 ) and time of wakefulness ( pindolol = 20.6 + / - 27.0 min ; propranolol = 15.5 + / - 23.0 min ; metoprolol = 19.5 + / - 24.3 min ; atenolol = 10.2 + / - 11.6 min ; placebo = 9.2 + / - 74.5 min ) . only pindolol significantly affected rapid eye movement ( rem ) sleep time ( pindolol = 54.5 + / - 21.9 min ; placebo = 74.5 + / - 74.5 min ) and rem latency ( pindolol = 175.0 + / - 60.7 min ; placebo = 95.4 + / - 43.8 min ) . subjective reports of sleep similarly indicated increased wakefulness and greater restlessness with lipophilic beta-blockers . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
treatment of canine pulmonary hypertension : effects of norepinephrine and isoproterenol on pulmonary vascular pressure-flow characteristics . pulmonary vascular flow resistive properties may be described by mean pulmonary arterial pressure ( pap ) -cardiac output ( co ) plots . the slope of the pap-co relationship defines the incremental resistance and the extrapolated pressure intercept defines the effective outflow pressure . we investigated effects of norepinephrine ( 11 dogs ) and isoproterenol ( seven dogs ) on the pulmonary vascular pap-co relationship in a model of pulmonary hypertension produced by injection of autologous blood clots . multiple pap-co coordinates were obtained with and without drug infusion . co was varied by opening systemic arteriovenous fistulas . pap-co relationships were well described by a linear equation ( mean r value .964 + / - .032 ) . isoproterenol increased mean co by 61 % ( p less than .01 ) , and calculated pulmonary vascular resistance ( pvr ) decreased by 31 % ( p less than .05 ) , corresponding to a 35 % decrease ( 5.1 + / - 2.0 to 3.3 + / - 0.9 mm hg x liter x min-1 ; p less than .01 ) incremental resistance . in the first seven dogs to receive norepinephrine , despite a 25 % increase in blood pressure ( p less than .01 ) no significant effects on co , pap , pvr , or pap-co relationship were observed . in the next four dogs , norepinephrine was infused at a lower dose to increase blood pressure 50 % and a higher dose to ensure an increase in co . in both conditions , calculated pvr fell ( p less than .05 ) compared with that before norepinephrine . however , measured incremental resistance and effective outflow pressure did not change . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
is vasospasm related to platelet deposition ? relationship in a porcine preparation of arterial injury in vivo . although aggregating platelets can release potent vasoactive substances in vitro , the importance of platelets in mediating naturally occurring or provoked spasm in vivo is not clear . to investigate the possible role of platelets in arterial spasm following arterial injury induced by angioplasty , quantitative platelet deposition of the dilated arterial segment and the degree of vasoconstriction ( average percent diameter narrowing just proximal and distal to the dilated segment ) produced during angioplasty of the common carotid arteries were studied in 42 heparinized normal pigs that were killed immediately after the angioplasty procedure . angiographic films of the carotid arteries were taken before and after the dilatation to assess the vasoconstriction . vasoconstriction was greater ( 40 % vs 19 % , p less than .002 ) when platelet deposition ( x 10 ( 6 ) / cm2 ) was in excess of 10 , and the severity of vasoconstriction in vivo had a close positive exponential correlation ( r = .77 , p less than .001 ) with extent of platelet deposition in 24 untreated pigs . platelet deposition and vasoconstriction were greater with severe arterial wall injury than with mild injury ( 58.8 versus 6.9 , p less than .0001 ; 37 % vs 21 % , p less than .001 , respectively ) . after severe injury in 18 pigs pretreated with 1 mg / kg / day aspirin , platelet deposition decreased ( from 58.8 to 19.6 , p less than .02 ) and vasoconstriction decreased ( from 37 % to 21 % , p less than .003 ) relative to control . after mild injury , platelet deposition and vasoconstriction were mild and unchanged by aspirin . thus , local vasoconstriction is influenced by the degree of platelet deposition . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
delayed myocardial ischemia induced by anger . the objectives of this study were to develop a reproducible behavioral model that simulates the anger state and to characterize its influence on myocardial blood flow in both the normal and compromised coronary circulations . fourteen mongrel dogs of both sexes were studied . the animals were instrumented for the recording of electrocardiogram , arterial blood pressure , and left circumflex coronary arterial blood flow . a critical level of coronary stenosis was achieved with an adjustable occluder placed just distal to the flow probe . anger was induced in the instrumented animals by having another dog challenge their access to food . in the absence of coronary artery stenosis , provocation of anger increased heart rate from 107 + / - 6 to 215 + / - 15 beats / min , arterial blood pressure from 95 + / - 4 to 142 + / - 5 mm hg , and coronary blood flow from 31 + / - 5 to 72 + / - 9 ml / min . these variables returned to the preanger levels within 2 to 4 min . induction of anger was repeated after a critical stenosis was applied to the left circumflex coronary artery . anger increased heart rate from 112 + / - 6 to 210 + / - 16 beats / min , arterial blood pressure from 99 + / - 3 to 142 + / - 6 mm hg , and coronary arterial flow from 23 + / - 5 to 35 + / - 7 ml / min . within 2 to 4 min after the bout of anger , all dogs exhibited significant reductions in coronary arterial flow ( 35 % of baseline ; p less than .001 ) , increases in coronary vascular resistance ( 557 % of baseline ; p less than .002 ) , and ischemic st segment changes in leads ii , iii , and avf . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
pathogenesis of persistent truncus arteriosus and dextroposed aorta in the chick embryo after neural crest ablation . to investigate the contribution of cranial neural crest cells to the developing cardiovascular system in the chick embryo , cauterization of various regions of cranial neural crest was performed . five regions may be distinguished , each of which contributes mesenchyme to pharyngeal ( branchial ) arches 1 through 4 and 6. ablation of arch 3 , 4 , and 6 regions resulted in a high incidence of persistent truncus arteriosus ( pta ) associated with anomalies of the aortic arch . dextroposed aorta ( dpa ) or anomalies of the inflow tract were found in all ablation groups . although anomalies of the aortic arch arteries were induced in all ablation groups and were usually associated with intracardiac anomalies , those of the third and right fourth aortic arch were most frequent in the arch 4 and arch 4 + 6 groups . anomalies of the sixth aortic arch were most frequent after extensive ablations that included the arch 6 region . we speculate that pta is a direct result of the decreased population of mesenchymal cells derived from the arch 3 through 6 neural crest regions . dpa or anomalies of the inflow tract may be related to altered hemodynamics due to anomalies induced by neural crest ablation . anomalies of the aortic arch arteries may be caused by either the direct or indirect process . 
comparative electrophysiologic effects of intravenous amiodarone and desethylamiodarone in dogs : evidence for clinically relevant activity of the metabolite . it has been suggested that some of the effects of long-term amiodarone therapy may be due to accumulation of a metabolite , desethylamiodarone . to evaluate the pharmacologic actions of the metabolite , we gave single intravenous doses ( 10 or 25 mg / kg ) of amiodarone or desethylamiodarone to anesthetized dogs . the resulting plasma and myocardial concentrations of both agents were similar to levels achieved with long-term oral amiodarone therapy in man . amiodarone and desethylamiodarone produced frequency-dependent slowing in ventricular and atrioventricular nodal conduction and increased atrial and ventricular refractory periods . the relative effects of these agents on fast- and slow-channel tissues differed , with amiodarone producing significantly greater prolongation of wenckebach cycle length and desethylamiodarone producing larger increases in qrs duration , atrial refractory period , and ventricular refractory period . we conclude that desethylamiodarone has substantial electrophysiologic effects at clinically relevant concentrations and has relatively greater effect on fast-channel tissue in vivo than does amiodarone . the accumulation of desethylamiodarone probably accounts for some of the delayed electrophysiologic effects in patients receiving long-term treatment with amiodarone . 
a new intracavitary probe for detecting the site of origin of ectopic ventricular beats during one cardiac cycle . an olive-shaped probe ( 25 x 12 mm ) with 41 evenly distributed recording electrodes on its surface was introduced into the left ventricles of seven open-chest dogs via the left atrium . in two other dogs a cylindrical probe ( 40 x 3 mm ) was used . electrical stimuli were delivered at 66 endocardial , midwall , or epicardial sites in the left and right ventricular walls and the septum . mechanical stimuli were also applied at various epicardial sites . on-line mapping of equipotential contour lines on the surface of the probe invariably revealed a clear-cut potential minimum on the electrode that faced the pacing site . time of appearance of potential minimum was 3 to 5 msec after endocardial stimuli , 10 to 25 msec for midwall and epicardial pacing , and 30 msec or more for right ventricular stimulation . simultaneous stimulation at two sites 1.2 cm apart gave rise to two separate minima on the maps . " pseudoisochrones " derived from electrograms recorded by the new probe were slightly less accurate in indicating the site of origin of extrasystoles . we conclude that equipotential and " isochrone " contour maps recorded from an array of semidirect electrodes , regularly distributed on the surface of an intraventricular probe , provide information on the site of origin ( location and intramural depth ) of ectopic paced beats in a normal dog heart . 
evidence for a reversible oxygen radical-mediated component of reperfusion injury : reduction by recombinant human superoxide dismutase administered at the time of reflow . it has been suggested that the beneficial effects of reperfusing ischemic myocardium might be in part reversed by the occurrence of " reperfusion injury . " one possible mechanism could be the generation of oxygen free radicals . superoxide dismutase enzymatically scavenges superoxide radicals by dismutation to hydrogen peroxide . this study tested the hypothesis that administration of recombinant human superoxide dismutase ( h-sod ) at the time of reflow after a period of prolonged global ischemia would result in improved recovery of myocardial metabolism and function by preventing or reducing a potentially harmful component of reperfusion . we also sought to determine whether catalase , an enzymatic scavenger of hydrogen peroxide , was a necessary addition for optimal benefit . langendorff perfused rabbit hearts were subjected to 30 min of normothermic ( 37 degrees c ) total global ischemia . at the moment of reperfusion , 12 control hearts received a 10 ml bolus of normal perfusate followed by 15 min of reperfusion with normal perfusate ( group i ) , 12 hearts received 60 , 000 iu of h-sod as a bolus followed by a continuous infusion of 100 iu / ml for 15 min ( group ii ) , and 12 hearts received 60 , 000 iu of h-sod and 60 , 000 iu of catalase as a bolus followed by 100 iu / ml of both enzymes for 15 min ( group iii ) . myocardial atp and phosphocreatine ( pcr ) content and intracellular ph during ischemia and reperfusion were continuously monitored with 31p nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ) spectroscopy . during 30 min of normothermic global ischemia intracellular ph dropped from 7.11-7.18 to 5.58-5.80 in all three groups of hearts . likewise myocardial pcr content fell rapidly to 7 % to 8 % and atp fell more slowly to 29 % to 36 % of preischemic control content . after 45 min of reperfusion pcr recovered to 65 + / - 5 % of control in untreated ( group i ) hearts compared with 89 + / - 8 % in h-sod-treated ( group ii ) hearts ( p less than .01 vs group i ) and with 83 + / - 6 % of control in h-sod / catalase-treated ( group iii ) hearts ( p less than .05 vs group i ) . recovery of isovolumic left ventricular developed pressure was 68 + / - 5 % of control in h-sod-treated ( group ii ) hearts and 66 + / - 6 % of control in h-sod / catalase-treated ( group iii ) hearts after 45 min of reflow , compared with 48 + / - 6 % of control in untreated ( group i ) hearts ( p less than .005 for groups ii and iii vs group i ) . the nmr data confirmed equal depletion of atp and pcr content in all three groups of hearts . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) 
the effect of acute hypercholesterolemia on myocardial infarct size and the no-reflow phenomenon during coronary occlusion-reperfusion . the goal of this study was to determine the effects of acute hypercholesterolemia on the evolution of myocardial infarction in a preparation of coronary occlusion-reperfusion . new zealand white rabbits were fed a 2 % cholesterol-enriched diet for 3 days ( plasma cholesterol 329 + / - 70 mg / dl ) , or maintained on the control diet ( plasma cholesterol 67 + / - 12 mg / dl ) . temporary ( 30 min ) coronary artery occlusion was performed in open-chest rabbits with a suture snare . the snare was released to permit reperfusion . when the animals were killed 5.5 hr later , left ventricles were cut into 3 mm slices . infarct size was determined by planimetry of tetrazolium-stained slices while the area at risk of infarction ( hypoperfused zone ) was determined by planimetry of the " cold spots " on autoradiograms of the slices that contained 99m tc-labeled microspheres that had been injected 1 min after occlusion . infarct size , expressed as percent of the hypoperfused zone , was 42.8 + / - 1.3 % ( n = 10 ) in the control group and was increased by approximately 100 % in cholesterol-fed animals to 83.7 + / - 2.0 % ( n = 10 , p less than .001 ) . to test the hypothesis that vascular obstruction ( no reflow ) might account for the larger infarct size , thioflavin s was injected immediately before the animals were killed to demarcate perfused myocardium in three additional groups of animals : standard chow-fed rabbits ( n = 5 ) , cholesterol-fed rabbits ( n = 5 ) , and standard chow-fed rabbits that , in addition , received an infusion of isoproterenol ( 0.1 microgram / kg / min , n = 6 ) , an intervention believed to increase infarct size through a mechanism not dependent on the no-reflow phenomenon . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
limitation of myocardial infarct expansion by reperfusion independent of myocardial salvage . very early reperfusion after coronary occlusion can reduce infarct size and preserve left ventricular function . whether later reperfusion is of benefit is unclear . we studied the effect of very early reperfusion with myocardial salvage and " late " reperfusion without myocardial salvage on infarct expansion and aneurysm formation . sixty-eight rats underwent left coronary artery ligation and were randomized to 30 min reperfusion , 2 hr reperfusion , or permanent coronary artery ligation . the animals were killed and the hearts examined at 2 weeks . thirty minute reperfusion reduced infarct size , extent of transmurality , and infarct expansion . two hour reperfusion reduced neither infarct size nor transmurality but inhibited infarct expansion . the results of this study in the rat preparation suggest a beneficial effect of " late " reperfusion on infarct expansion independent of myocardial salvage . if these results are confirmed in human beings , the period after myocardial infarction during which a patient can be considered for thrombolytic therapy or reperfusion by percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty could be greatly prolonged . 
nuclear magnetic resonance imaging : current applications and future prospects . 
the heart and coronary vessels in hypertension . 
adrenergic coronary vasoconstriction during myocardial underperfusion . the effects of adrenergic alpha-receptor-mediated coronary vasoconstriction were examined in the presence of coronary stenosis and during experimental coronary hypoperfusion . adrenergic coronary vasoconstriction was observed to operate even in the presence of coronary stenosis to limit oxygen delivery to the heart and increase myocardial oxygen extraction , but this vasoconstrictor effect did not result in myocardial lactate production . during constant coronary pressure perfusion the transmural distribution of alpha-receptor coronary vasoconstriction was determined with microspheres . a uniform transmural distribution of alpha-receptor-mediated vasoconstriction was observed at normal and subnormal perfusion pressures . during constant flow hypoperfusion , which permits transmural coronary steal , the left ventricular inner / outer blood flow ratio was more favorable with alpha-receptors intact than with alpha-receptors blocked . these findings indicate that alpha-receptor-mediated coronary vasoconstriction has an unexpected beneficial effect by lessening transmural steal during coronary hypoperfusion . 
effects of deoxycorticosterone / salt hypertension on cell ploidy in rat aortic smooth muscle cells . the effect of hypertension on dna content of isolated aortic smooth muscle cells and their nuclei has been studied in wistar rats treated with deoxycorticosterone and salt ( doc / salt ) . eight weeks of doc / salt administration induced a significant increase in aortic smooth muscle cells with tetraploid nuclei from 9.7 + / - 0.8 % ( mean + / - se ) in control animals to 26.6 + / - 2.4 % with doc / salt . the tetraploid cells appeared approximately 60 % larger in size than diploid cells as estimated by forward light scatter . prolonged reversal of hypertension by withdrawal of doc / salt for 3 months did not reduce nuclear tetraploidy significantly but appeared to prevent further increases . the results suggest that hypertension influences the growth cycle of aortic smooth muscle cells and increases nuclear polyploidy and cellular hypertrophy . preliminary studies have also been performed to measure transmembrane potential in isolated viable aortic smooth muscle cells with a lipophilic cationic fluoroprobe , 3 , 3 dipentyloxacarbocyanine , which distributes into cells in a potential-dependent manner . norepinephrine ( 10 ( -6 ) m to 10 ( -3 ) m ) appeared to produce a concentration-dependent reduction in membrane potential that was blocked by equimolar concentrations of prazosin but not of yohimbine . the studies suggest that norepinephrine can cause depolarization of smooth muscle cells through an alpha 1-mediated mechanism . 
protection of cerebral vessels by sympathetic nerves and vascular hypertrophy . acute increases in arterial blood pressure , beyond the autoregulatory capacity of cerebral blood vessels , produce an increase in cerebral blood flow , passive dilatation of cerebral arterioles and venules , and disruption of the blood-brain barrier ( bbb ) . stimulation of sympathetic nerves during acute hypertension attenuates the increase in cerebral blood flow and protects the bbb . it has been assumed that the protective effect of sympathetic stimulation is accomplished by constriction of large cerebral arteries , protecting downstream arterioles and capillaries . we have found , however , that sympathetic stimulation does not attenuate increases in pial arteriolar pressure accompanying acute hypertension . we now suggest that the protective effect of sympathetic stimulation may be accomplished by attenuation of increases in pial venous pressure . in chronic hypertension , blood pressure is sufficiently elevated that one might expect an increase in cerebral blood flow and disruption of the bbb . however , cerebral blood flow is normal and the bbb is intact in chronic hypertension . protection of the cerebral circulation during chronic hypertension is accomplished in part by a trophic effect of sympathetic nerves , which promotes hypertrophy of cerebral blood vessels . vascular hypertrophy attenuates increases in microvascular pressure accompanying hypertension . thus , stimulation of sympathetic nerves protects cerebral vessels during acute hypertension , perhaps by attenuation of increases in cerebral venous pressure , and a trophic effect of sympathetic nerves promotes vascular hypertrophy and protects cerebral vessels during chronic hypertension . 
is reversal of cardiac hypertrophy a desirable goal of antihypertensive therapy ? over the past several years , a growing body of information has confirmed and extended our initial concept that nonhemodynamic as well as hemodynamic factors are responsible for the development of left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertension . we reported the dissociation of these factors in the regression of left ventricular mass and hypertrophy with antihypertensive therapy . several lines of clinical and experimental studies have been pursued to determine whether cardiac performance , myocardial contractility , and reserve are normal with regression of ventricular mass with treatment . too few studies have been conducted in vivo , and in the conscious state , and at pretreatment pressures to conclude at this time that normal cardiac function and performance is restored or maintained . until such data are available , we must conclude that although left ventricular hypertrophy confers a risk , in and of itself , to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , we do not know whether pharmacologic reversal of cardiac hypertrophy is a desirable therapeutic goal . several years ago we were convinced that a new and impressive body of information emanating mostly from our laboratories strongly indicated a new concept previously unexpressed by others . we suggested that increasing ventricular mass in hypertension ( i.e. , left ventricular hypertrophy ) , although dependent in part on arterial pressure and other hemodynamic factors , was also dependent on participation of a number of " nonhemodynamic " mechanisms . our early findings , supported by associated reports , suggested that in addition to left ventricular afterload , factors including other pressor mechanisms ( e.g. , adrenergic function and norepinephrine levels , humoral substances , the renopressor system ) , aging , race , gender , coexisting diseases , pharmacologic agents , and others may also participate . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
effects of exercise on the capillary vasculature of the rat heart . effects on the myocardium , particularly those structural properties of the capillary network relevant to tissue oxygenation , were studied morphometrically in rats subjected to moderate exercise , strenuous exercise , and strenuous exercise preceded by a preconditioning period of moderate exercise . these different modalities of exercise were used to test the hypothesis that endurance training leads to capillary proliferation in the heart . the findings indicate that treadmill running produces right ventricular hypertrophy exclusively , which is accompanied by lengthening of the myocytes . furthermore , a moderate running program results in an increase in the numerical density , luminal surface , and total length of capillaries in the right ventricle . in contrast , strenuous exercise with or without a preconditioning period produces a relative decrease in capillary luminal volume , surface , and numerical density . in the former case the diffusion distance for oxygen is decreased and in the latter it is increased . these data suggest that moderate exercise affects the microvasculature in ways that improve the efficiency of tissue oxygenation in the myocardium , whereas strenuous exercise has the opposite effect . 
sodium balance and the reflex regulation of baroreceptor function . the study of the mechanisms by which variations in salt intake affect cardiovascular function has progressed from characterizing hemodynamic and renal effects to investigating the role of sodium ( na+ ) on sympathetic neuronal function . the consequences of altered sodium balance on the regulation of vasomotor activity and the integration of baroreceptor reflexes is a relatively neglected area of research . this report summarizes the significance of the disturbance in baroreceptor function that is associated with alterations in na+ homeostasis and assesses the possible mechanisms in a study of the interaction of the carotid sinus and vagal afferent reflexes in dogs exposed to sodium depletion or sodium loading . we also discuss the relationship between acute changes in cerebrospinal fluid na+ concentration and sympathetic nerve activity in both the absence and presence of cardiopulmonary reflexes and after blockade of the systemic effects of vasopressin . the studies provide important evidence for a previously unsuspected action of na+ upon the central circuits involved in integrating the interaction between low- and high-pressure baroreflexes . 
arterial dynamics , cardiac hypertrophy , and antihypertensive treatment . the relationship between cardiac hypertrophy , ventricular function , and aortic volume distensibility was studied in men with sustained essential hypertension by echocardiography and determination of pulse-wave velocity . the more reduced the aortic distensibility , the higher was the blood pressure response to exercise and the greater were the degree of cardiac hypertrophy and the modifications in systolic time intervals . changes in cardiac performance as determined by vasodilators equipotent in relation to blood pressure reduction were found to have markedly different effects on aortic distensibility ; volume distensibility was unchanged by cadralazine but was improved by calcium entry blockers and isosorbide dinitrate . our findings suggest that alterations in the buffering function of the large arteries , as indicated by decreased volume distensibility , participate in the increased afterload in patients with essential hypertension and thus influence the degree of cardiac hypertrophy and changes in cardiac function and selective use of antihypertensive drugs may influence cardiovascular morbidity and mortality by their differential effect on large-vessel distensibility . 
pharmacologic vasodilators in the coronary circulation . pharmacologic vasodilators are used to treat hypertension , myocardial ischemia , and congestive heart failure . these drugs may indirectly affect coronary blood flow by their effects on the peripheral circulation , effects that modify myocardial oxygen demand . they also have direct effects on the coronary circulation , with some drugs affecting mainly the large epicardial coronary arteries and others affecting mainly the small resistance vessels . some coronary stenoses are compliant and are capable of changes in caliber . drugs that dilate large coronary arteries , such as nitroglycerin and the calcium channel-blocking agents , can dilate these stenotic segments . this dilation may contribute to the relief of myocardial ischemia by increasing coronary blood flow . alternatively , drugs that dilate resistance vessels without an effect on large coronary arteries may cause passive narrowing or collapse of coronary stenoses and could potentially worsen myocardial ischemia . therefore , in the presence of coronary stenoses , a vasodilator may be beneficial or harmful depending , at least in part , on the site of action of the drug in the coronary circulation . 
the hemodynamics of calcium-channel antagonists in hypertension : vascular and myocardial responses . hemodynamic studies have indicated that the mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of calcium-channel antagonists is reduction of systemic vascular resistance . however , potential negative inotropic effects could have an adverse effect on myocardial performance . in this study , we evaluated the hemodynamic response to the prototypic calcium-channel antagonist , verapamil , in patients with moderate-to-severe hypertension . we gave incremental infusions of verapamil in subsystemic doses into the brachial artery of an isolated forearm preparation . the response to 10 micrograms / min / 100 ml revealed a reduction in forearm vascular resistance from 55 to 21 units and an increase in forearm blood flow from 3.57 to 7.54 ml / min / 100 ml ( both p less than .01 ) . intravenous administration of verapamil as a bolus ( 0.15 mg / kg ) and continuous infusion ( 1 or 2 mg / min ) resulted in a significant decrease in mean arterial pressure and systemic vascular resistance as well as a significant increase in cardiac index and stroke volume index . this occurred without a significant increase in pulmonary wedge pressure . one week of oral therapy resulted in a significant reduction of mean arterial pressure and systemic vascular resistance both at rest and at peak exercise , associated with a significant increase in stroke volume index and no increase in pulmonary wedge pressure . these findings document the direct vasodilator effects of the prototypic calcium-channel antagonist verapamil in patients with moderate-to-severe hypertension . in addition , these data show that myocardial performance can improve during therapy , when myocardial reserve is sufficient , and the adverse effects of systemic vasoconstriction are reversed by therapy . 
the spectrum of left ventricular hypertrophy in a general population sample : the framingham study . to assess the prevalence , characteristics , and correlates of echocardiographically determined left ventricular hypertrophy ( echo lvh ) in a free-living population , 510 men and 855 women from the original framingham cohort ( age 59 to 90 years ) were studied by m-mode echocardiography . offspring and offspring spouses ( 1718 men and 1892 women ; age 17 to 75 years ) were similarly studied . the severity of echo lvh , as reflected by left ventricular mass indexed to body surface area , ranged from 101 g / m2 ( women ) and 132 g / m2 ( men ) to more than 400 g / m2 . the prevalence of electrocardiographically assessed lvh increased proportionately with increased echocardiographic left ventricular mass . women with echocardiographic left ventricular mass indexes exceeding 200 g / m2 were three to four times more likely to have electrocardiographic lvh than men with similar elevations of echocardiographic left ventricular mass index . the prevalence of echo lvh ranged from 6.6 % in the younger ( offspring study ) women to 33 % in the older ( original cohort ) women ( 8.6 % and 23.7 % , respectively , for men ) and included a spectrum of forms--eccentric-dilated , eccentric-nondilated , concentric , and disproportionate septal thickness--which varied in prevalence in the various age-sex groups . each of these forms of echo lvh was associated with higher systolic blood pressures at the time of echocardiographic examination and over the previous 30 years when compared with blood pressures of framingham subjects without echo lvh . 
phase-plane analysis of left ventricular chamber filling and midwall fiber lengthening in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy . echocardiographic measurements of the left ventricle were used to define rates of circumferential fiber lengthening at the endocardium and midwall in 12 normal subjects and six patients with concentric left ventricular hypertrophy ( wall thickness 11 to 16 mm ) . there was no difference in chamber size and systolic shortening in the two groups , but peak normalized lengthening rate [ endocardial ( + ) vcf ] was less than normal in the group with hypertrophy ( 4.8 + / - 1.4 and 3.1 + / - 0.9 sec-1 , respectively , p less than .05 ) . these results were contrasted with midwall ( + ) vcf data derived from two models that take into account nonuniform thickening across the left ventricular wall . both models assume a constant left ventricular mass . the first allows changes in long axis and muscle cross-sectional area ; the second assumes a constant cross-sectional area . peak midwall ( + ) vcf with the first model was 2.1 + / - 0.5 sec-1 in the normal group and 1.4 + / - 0.3 sec-1 in the group with hypertrophy ( p less than .01 ) ; with the second model peak midwall vcf was 2.8 + / - 0.6 and 1.4 + / - 0.4 sec-1 ( p less than .01 ) in the two groups . the time to peak vcf and the dimension at the instant of peak ( + ) vcf were similar in the two groups . phase-plane plots of length and velocity ( dimension vs dd / dt ) allow visual inspection and quantification of the relationships between instantaneous dimension , rate of change of dimension , and time in normal and hypertrophic hearts . these plots indicate abnormal filling of the left ventricular chamber and lengthening of midwall fibers in left ventricular hypertrophy . 
left ventricular diastolic function in hypertensive patients . left ventricular filling rate has been shown to be depressed in hypertensive patients before any alteration in indexes of systolic function . the mechanism ( s ) underlying this abnormality is not known . however , several factors were found to influence left ventricular filling rate . the relative importance of these factors is emerging from studies performed at various centers . of these , the adrenergic drive , coronary blood flow , heart rate , afterload , and calcium reuptake mechanisms seem to be important . physiologically , the index of left ventricular filling should therefore be normalized to allow comparison between different individuals . using a normalized index ( filling rate / emptying rate ) , we found in a small group ( n = 13 ) of hypertensive patients that the increase in total peripheral resistance during head-up tilt was blunted in those with reduced left ventricular filling , suggesting that this abnormality in diastolic function accompanying hypertension plays a role in cardiovascular regulation by altering sensitivity of cardiopulmonary reflexes . 
the lesser circulation in patients with systemic hypertension . the elevated blood pressure and vascular resistance in patients with systemic hypertension are paralleled by a proportional rise in pressure and resistance in the lesser circulation . we evaluated the hypothesis that the increased systemic reaction to adrenergic stimulation is shared by the pulmonary vessels . for this purpose we investigated nine normotensive subjects and 24 patients with moderate primary hypertension during mental arithmetic and the cold pressor test . both groups responded to both stimuli , with a pressure reaction that during arithmetic was mediated through an increase of cardiac output , and a reaction during the cold pressor test mediated through a predominant rise in systemic vascular resistance . the pressure changes were emphasized in the hypertensive population . pressure in the pulmonary artery in normotensive subjects was not affected by cold and was slightly raised ( systolic ) during arithmetic . in hypertensive patients , on the other hand , systolic and diastolic pressures were consistently augmented by both tests , and pulmonary arteriolar resistance rose by 42 % and 29 % of control during the cold pressor test and arithmetic , respectively . changes in resistance reflected neurally mediated vasoconstriction and not variations in the passive relationship between pressure and flow , since during arithmetic , for a similar rise in flow the driving pressure across the lungs was steady in normotensive subjects and rose significantly in hypertensive patients . in these same patients pressure was augmented by cold in the absence of substantial changes in flow . at baseline and during tests pulmonary wedge pressure , pleural pressure , arterial blood gases , and ph were similar in the two populations . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
a critical view of coronary reserve . coronary flow reserve is reduced by pathologic acquired left ventricular hypertrophy , and is less in subendocardial than subepicardial layers of normal or hypertrophied hearts . in normal hearts , pacing-induced tachycardia at a rate of 250 beats / min does not alter coronary reserve in the outer half of the left ventricular wall . pacing produces a linear decrease in coronary reserve in the inner half , although the decrease is attenuated if perfusion pressure is elevated , as in systemic hypertension . strenuous exercise can quadruple coronary flow , but modest coronary flow reserve is preserved in normal hearts . whether this occurs when there is ventricular hypertrophy is unknown and requires study . the concept of coronary flow reserve is important to the understanding of pathophysiology , but data must be interpreted with caution because pharmacologic agents may produce more vasodilatation than can be attained by endogenous stimuli , even when there is marked ischemia . 
the cardiac hypertrophic responses to pathologic and physiologic loads . myocardial hypertrophy is an adaptive response of the heart to an imposed load . two distinct patterns of hypertrophy are discussed , pathologic and physiologic , which differ in their mechanical and biochemical features . evidence is presented that supports the following hypotheses : the nature of the hypertrophy reflects the nature of the stimulus ; the function of the hypertrophied heart reflects its biochemistry ; and the degree of responsiveness of the heart varies with species and with age . 
do hypertension and aging have a similar effect on the myocardium ? vascular stiffening and a modest increase in cardiac mass with advancing age in man resemble similar alterations accompanying chronic arterial hypertension . in both hypertensive and elderly normotensive individuals , systolic pump function at rest is not altered , while early filling rate and volume are decreased . although this abnormality is often attributed to the cardiac hypertrophy per se , prolonged isometric relaxation , which occurs with aging in man and animals and in some types of experimental hypertension , is an equally plausible mechanism . in the aged rat , prolonged relaxation can be attributed to a prolonged myoplasmic ca++ transient with excitation . this occurs amidst a constellation of other cellular changes , among which are a markedly prolonged transmembrane action potential , diminished sarcoplasmic reticulum ca++ pumping rate , and altered myosin isozyme composition . many of these changes occur in cardiac muscle of younger animals with cardiac hypertrophy due to chronic increased afterload . while the magnitude of these alterations with advanced age is as great as those with chronic hypertension in younger animals , the magnitude of left ventricular hypertrophy with aging is far less than that in experimental hypertension . furthermore , with aging , these alterations occur not only in the myocardium of the left but also of the right heart ( which does not hypertrophy ) . thus , myocardial hypertrophy per se does not appear to be the common link between cellular changes due to aging and those due to hypertension . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
aortic perfusion pressure , protein synthesis , and protein degradation . an increase in aortic pressure from 60 to 120 mm hg accelerated protein synthesis and inhibited protein degradation in isolated rat hearts perfused as langendorff preparations . this elevation of aortic pressure raised intraventricular pressure development , coronary flow , and oxygen consumption . the effect of aortic pressure on protein turnover was dissociated from intraventricular pressure development , contractile activity , and oxygen consumption by use of beating-drained and arrested-drained preparations . results of other experiments argued against coronary flow as a determinant of rates of protein synthesis and degradation . these results indicated that effects of elevated aortic pressure on protein turnover were caused by stretch of the ventricular wall via its engorgement with blood , the so-called erectile properties of the heart or " garden-hose effect . " these effects on protein turnover may be of importance in initiating hypertrophy of the heart secondary to pressure or volume overload . 
molecular biology of myocardial proteins . there are many possible applications of molecular biology to cardiovascular research . specific examples discussed in this article include the following : molecular diversity of ventricular myosin . myosin heavy chain ( hc ) structure can be described both at the protein and cdna levels . change in the expression of myosin genes . transitions in the myosin hcs during normal development and after experimental manipulation of the heart can be obtained . control of gene transcription . there have been recent studies of total mrna and myosin hc-specific mrnas using techniques of molecular biology . structure of the myosin hc gene . 
catecholamine-induced polyploidization in vascular smooth muscle cells . polyploidy formation of vascular smooth muscle cells was observed in vivo by intravenous infusion of norepinephrine or epinephrine in wistar-crea rats for 12 days at the rate of 0.02 mumol / hr with an osmotic minipump and in vitro by exposing cultured vascular smooth muscle cells obtained from normotensive wistar-kyoto rats ( wky ) and spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr ) to norepinephrine ( 10 ( -7 ) m to 10 ( -5 ) m ) in the cultured medium . infusion in vivo of norepinephrine but not epinephrine increased blood pressure slightly . however , both agents increased significantly the frequency of tetraploidy of smooth muscle cells up to 14.9 + / - 0.6 % ( mean + / - se ) and 9.2 + / - 0.5 % compared with saline ( 6.5 + / - 0.7 % ) . exposure in vitro to norepinephrine ( 10 ( -6 ) m ) increased the frequency of tetraploidy and octaploidy of smooth muscle cells from shr up to 14.2 % and 2.1 % , respectively , compared with nonexposed cells ( 8.1 % and 0.2 % ) . these results appear to indicate that norepinephrine and epinephrine induce polyploidy of smooth muscle cells independently from blood pressure elevation . 
intracellular high-energy phosphate transfer in normal and hypertrophied myocardium . the understanding of the physiologic role of the creatine kinase reaction has evolved in parallel with investigative technology . since the creatine kinase reaction replenishes hydrolyzed atp so rapidly , early studies detected only creatine phosphate hydrolysis during muscular contraction . direct observation of atp hydrolysis required creatine kinase inhibition and suggested that creatine phosphate provided an energy reserve . elegant studies with isolated heart mitochondria provided evidence that the creatine kinase reaction regulates the rate of oxidative phosphorylation . the 31p nuclear magnetic resonance technique of magnetization transfer permitted the direct investigation of the creatine kinase reaction in intact organs and confirmed the classic observation that chemical flux through the creatine kinase reaction is coupled to mitochondrial energy production . hearts from 18-month-old spontaneously hypertensive rats have as much as a 50 % decrease in mitochondrial creatine kinase activity . preliminary magnetization transfer studies in such a heart show a depressed relation between creatine kinase flux and cardiac performance . the results suggest that creatine kinase flux , as measured by magnetization transfer , is determined in part by creatine kinase isozyme composition and that these biochemical changes are associated with long-standing cardiac hypertrophy . 
unstable fracture dislocations of the proximal interphalangeal joint . treatment with the force couple splint . the force couple splint maintains concentric joint reduction while allowing early active range of motion exercises . sixteen cases were treated with a force couple created across the proximal interphalangeal ( pip ) joint , levering the dislocated base of the middle phalanx palmarly , while simultaneously lifting the distal end of the proximal phalanx dorsally to restore joint reduction . the splint is constructed from three kirschner wires and is activated by a single rubber band . the effect of this force couple is present through a complete range of joint motion , thereby allowing active flexion and extension of the joint during bone and soft tissue healing . the force couple splint is capable of producing good to excellent results in patients with unstable acute fracture dislocations of the pip joint . 
tension wire fixation of avulsion fractures in the hand . tension band wiring is a simple , predictable method of internal fixation for avulsion fracture in the hand . these fractures include the bony gamekeeper , bony mallet , and fractures associated with proximal interphalangeal joint trauma . by the placement of a small gauge wire through the insertion of the ligament or tendon onto the fracture fragment , the tension wire technique avoids many of the pitfalls of internal fixation and also takes advantage of its physiologic and biomechanical position . 
treatment of bennett , rolando , and vertical intraarticular trapezial fractures . intraarticular fractures at the first trapeziometacarpal joint include bennett , rolando , and vertical intraarticular fractures of the trapezium . if these fractures heal in a displaced position , a traumatic arthritis quickly develops at the thumb base . open reduction and lag screw rigid internal fixation of a bennett fracture is advisable if a satisfactory closed reduction cannot be obtained . if the palmar and dorsal displaced fragments of a rolando fracture are of adequate size , an open reduction internal fixation may be performed with small lag screws incorporated through a t- or l-shaped buttress plate . a displaced vertical intraarticular fracture of the trapezium may be easily misdiagnosed as a trivial chip fracture , unless specific radiographic views are obtained . open reduction internal fixation is the only treatment method that will provide a satisfactory outcome for this fracture . 
salvage of intraarticular malunions of the hand and wrist . the role of realignment osteotomy . malunited intraarticular fractures of the hand and wrist may be repaired months following injury by osteotomy through the healed fracture site . if a congruent joint can be reestablished , pain may be relieved while skeletal alignment and motion are improved . successful reconstruction depends on careful preoperative evaluation and patient selection . extensile surgical exposure , accurate reduction , and firm skeletal fixation are essential for this technique . early supervised joint mobilization allows maximal motion . eight of nine operated joints have regained substantial motion . one procedure failed to establish firm fixation in osteoporotic bone and required arthrodesis . secondary tenolysis was required on one occasion . an additional patient gained substantial pain relief and motion from limited articular surface resection . 
difficult wrist fractures . perilunate fracture-dislocations of the wrist . perilunate dislocations of the wrist have a common pathway of disruption that occurs from extensive dorsiflexion injuries . open reduction and internal fixation of these injuries is required to provide accurate alignment and the option for ligament repair . both dorsal and palmar surgical incisions may be indicated . associated injuries to the median nerve must be recognized . treatment includes scaphoid and radial styloid stabilization with multiple k-wires or internal compression screw ( herbert or association for the study of internal fixation [ asif ] screws ) . in these injuries , the lunate must be reduced first and stabilized . the scaphoid proximal segment follows the lunate unless the scapholunate ( sl ) ligament is torn . the distal scaphoid fragment , capitate , and triquetrum are reduced and aligned with the lunate and need to be held with k-wires . ligament repair and augmentation may be necessary at both scapholunate and lunotriquetal areas if there has been serious ligament injury . palmar ligament repair is often required , and we recommend a palmar exploration in most patients along with release of the median nerve . surgical treatment results of perilunate fracture-dislocations of the wrist appear better than conservative treatment methods , but complications following both indicate the need for improved internal fixation and fracture-dislocation realignment . these fractures are a real challenge to the treating surgeon who must use patience , precise surgical techniques , and careful roentgenographic study ( including tomograms and traction views ) to assure the best result . 
displaced intraarticular fractures of the distal radius . the treatment of intraarticular fractures of the distal radius has been dramatically altered over the past decade . investigations into the pathomechanics of these injuries highlight the problems of arthritis , pain , swelling , weakness , limited range of motion and instability associated with nonanatomic reduction of both intraarticular fragments and their associated ligaments . factors affecting the prognosis for these injuries include degree and location of articular involvement and the energy of the precipitating force as well as the anatomy of reduction . operative treatment is reserved for displaced intraarticular fractures . those extremely comminuted fractures are best fixed with distraction and external fixation . the operative approach to these fractures is dependent on the anatomy . ligamentous instability , in particular with radial styloid fractures , must be sought and treated . kirschner wires can be used as " joy sticks " to control unstable carpal bones or fracture fragments prior to fixation . plates and screws are useful in the stabilization of volar and dorsal rim fractures . the use of intraoperative radiographs is emphasized . postoperative early range of motion , when possible , greatly improves the long-term results . 
comparison of functional results of replantation versus prosthesis in a patient with bilateral arm amputation . function was evaluated in a 12-year-old girl who had traumatic , bilateral proximal humeral amputation at seven years of age . unilateral successful replantation was performed with subsequent nerve grafts and tendon transfers to improve function . the contralateral side was fitted early after amputation with a body-powered prosthesis . subjectively , the patient preferred the replanted side for activities of daily living . the range of motion and strength was better overall on the replanted side . sensory return , although poor when compared with a normal hand , allowed the patient when blindfolded to identify objects placed in the hand . the replanted arm offers better function than the prosthesis for most activities . 
a clinical method of functional assessment of the shoulder . several methods have been devised to estimate shoulder function , none of which is entirely satisfactory . the method described in this article is applicable irrespective of the details of the diagnostic or radiologic abnormalities caused by disease or injury . the method records individual parameters and provides an overall clinical functional assessment . it is accurately reproducible by different observers and is sufficiently sensitive to reveal even small changes in function . the method is easy to perform and requires a minimal amount of time for evaluation of large population groups . 
surgical versus nonsurgical treatment of ligamentous injuries following dislocations of the elbow joint . sixty-two patients older than 16 years of age at the time of injury were reexamined an average of five years ( range , 1 to 12 years ) after a dislocation of the elbow without concomitant fracture . thirty-four were treated nonsurgically with closed reduction and immobilization in a plaster cast . twenty-eight were treated surgically with primary ligament repair followed by immobilization in plaster . ligament repair was performed medially in all cases and laterally in 17 , on the average two days after injury . at follow-up examination , the most common complaint in both groups was limited range of motion , decreased extension being the most common . in no respect were the surgically treated elbows better than those treated nonsurgically . no evidence was found to recommend primary surgical treatment of ligament injuries associated with dislocation of the elbow . 
lateral idiopathic subluxation of the radial head . case report . idiopathic subluxation of the radial head ( isrh ) is a rare entity that is separate from congenital dislocations of the radial head , both symptomatically and radiographically . isrh causes pain and restriction of rotation . a dome-shaped radial head , a hypertrophied ulna , and a hypoplastic capitellum are not present in isrh , as they are in a congenital dislocation of the radial head ( cdrh ) . a true lateral isrh is used as an example to demonstrate these differences . remodeling of the radial head may preserve motion in the joint surface deformed by growth along abnormal planes of motion . 
giant cell reaction of small bones . a radiographically nonspecific lytic lesion in the middle phalanx of the index finger with microscopic evidence of a benign fibrous stroma with giant cells and osteoid was investigated in an 18-year-old man . giant cell reaction is a rare , benign lesion of the small bones of the hands and feet . trauma as the cause of a giant cell lesion poses an interesting question . 
closed reduction of cervical spine dislocations . between july 1979 and july 1983 , 24 patients with cervical facet dislocations were treated . there were 11 unilateral and 13 bilateral facet dislocations . the treatment consisted of axial skeletal tractions , stryker frame , gardner-wells tongs , and judicious manipulation . cadaver studies were important for learning the anatomy and principles of cervical manipulation . seventeen ( 71 % ) of the 24 patients were reduced successfully by a closed method without any progression of neurologic deficit or facet fracture . seven ( 29 % ) of the 24 patients could not be reduced closed . ninety percent ( 9 of 10 ) of incomplete spinal cord injuries improved when evaluated by the frankel classification at least one grade . the program of treatment proved to be safe and effective in achieving closed reduction of either unilateral or bilateral facet dislocations . 
biomechanical effects of point configuration in kirschner-wire fixation . the drilling and bone holding properties of kirschner wires of three different tip designs have been investigated . the tip designs studied were the commercially available trocar- and diamond-shaped tips and the homemade cut tip produced by cutting the pin obliquely with wire cutters . thirteen canine metacarpals were drilled with wires of each tip design at 400 and 800 rpm . a servohydraulic test machine ( materials test systems , minneapolis , mn ) simultaneously measured axial loads , torque , and displacement during insertion and pull-out . kirschner wires of each tip configuration were also placed in seven canine metacarpals for a three-week in vivo test . after the animals were killed , peak pull-out forces were measured and compared with in vitro results . the trochar-tipped wire displayed the highest required torque and axial load to penetrate bone . it also demonstrated the highest pull-out force immediately after drilling , especially when inserted at the low drill speed . after placement for three weeks , pull-out force of the diamond-tipped wire equaled the trochar . the homemade cut wire consistently yielded inferior holding properties . for immediate and sustained strong fixation in bone , a wire with a trochar tip configuration should be inserted at low drill speeds . 
etiologic factors of myelopathy . a radiographic evaluation of the aging changes in the cervical spine . the radiographic characteristics of the cervical spine among older individuals were investigated in 100 normal subjects and compared with those of younger subjects . the cervical spine of the older subjects displayed narrowing of intervertebral discs and osteophytoses ( posterior osteophytes as well as anterior osteophytes ) at the levels of c5-6 and c6-7 , where the range of motion was decreased . such degenerative changes resulted in vertebrolisthesis , especially retrolisthesis , predominantly at the levels of c3-4 and c4-5 , where intervertebral disc space was well maintained and mobility was well preserved . both static and dynamic anteroposterior canal diameter decreased with age . throughout the aging process the dynamic canal became much narrower than the static canal , except at c2-3 . posterior osteophytes at c5-6 or c6-7 and retrolisthesis at c3-4 or c4-5 were major levels of stenosis associated with changes in the dynamic canal . following the same evaluation system , 20 elderly patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy were assessed . based on the above-noted characteristics of the aging process , patients with myelopathy had smaller static and dynamic canal measurements than normal subjects . the development of cervical myelopathy , however , was not always based on critical static or dynamic canal stenosis ( 10 % in this series ) and might involve other factors . 
cervical myelopathy attributable to pseudogout . case report with radiologic , histologic , and crystallographic observations . a 77-year-old woman complained of numbness in her hands and feet , progressive unsteadiness , weakness , and loss of proprioception of six months ' duration . a myelogram revealed stenosis of the spinal canal at the levels of c2-3 , t6-7 , l2-3 , and l3-4 . on computerized tomography scan , a large dorsal , epidural , soft tissue mass and focal calcification of the ligamentum flavum were seen at c3 . laboratory studies ruled out gout , collagen disease , vitamin b12 deficiency , syphilis , parathyroid , and thyroid disease . at decompressive laminectomy , a nodular mass in the ligamentum flavum ( c2-4 ) was found and removed . three months after operation , the neurologic symptoms had improved . histologic examination of the elastic ligament revealed deposits of birefringent crystals , which were identified by x-ray diffraction as calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate ( ccpd ) . only about six cases of myelopathy attributable to deposits of cppd appear to have been previously reported . 
muscle fiber types in thoracic erector spinae muscles . fiber types in idiopathic and other forms of scoliosis . histochemical studies of the thoracic part of the erector spinae muscles in scoliosis have shown a consistently higher proportion of type 1 fibers on the convex side . the fiber distribution of the multifidus and semispinalis muscles was studied in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis ( ais ) . compared with sex- and age-matched controls , a " normal " percentage of type 1 fibers was found on the convex right side and significantly smaller percentage of type 1 fibers on the concave side . boys with ais showed the same pattern as girls . in two patients with double major curves , the same pattern could be seen on the convexity of both curves . patients with congenital scoliosis or scoliosis with early onset showed a different pattern with a " normal " percentage of type 1 fibers on the concave side but a significantly greater percentage of type 1 fibers on the convex side . in ais , the deviation in the fiber distribution may constitute a primary factor in the pathogenesis of scoliosis . in congenital scoliosis the differences in fiber distribution between the convex and concave sides are considered secondary in the pathogenesis of the spinal curvature . 
cleidocranial dysostosis and syringomyelia . review of the literature and case report . a 34-year-old woman with congenital cleidocranial dysostosis had scoliosis diagnosed at age 13. the scoliosis was treated during adolescence with spinal orthoses but continued to progress after skeletal maturation . she was diagnosed as having syringomyelia at age 34. the possibility of syringomyelia should be considered in patients with cleidocranial dysostosis , especially those with neurologic symptoms , scoliosis not responding to conservative therapy , or progressive scoliosis after skeletal maturation . although only two previous patients have been reported in the literature , the condition undiagnosed could be a more common problem than generally supposed . 
conservative management of difficult phalangeal fractures . stable fractures of the metacarpal and proximal phalanges can be treated satisfactorily by closed methods . the problem in those unstable fractures is whether to treat with open or closed reduction . stiffness of the proximal interphalangeal joint ( pip ) , malunion , rotation deformities , shortening , and nonunion are known complications of fractures of the proximal phalanx . fractures at the base of the proximal phalanx . fractures at the base of the proximal phalanx have low incidence of complications if they are treated closed . fractures at the shaft carry a much larger risk of complications with either type of treatment . this study of 158 fractures of the proximal phalanx demonstrates that there is a place for conservative treatment in the management of unstable shaft fractures of the proximal phalanx . 
magnetic resonance imaging in the early diagnosis of ischemic necrosis of the femoral head . preliminary results . magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) was performed on the hips of 25 patients with suspected ischemic necrosis of the femoral head . twenty-six femoral heads manifested mri changes of ischemic necrosis : diminished bone marrow signal in a ringlike , focal , or diffuse pattern . plain radiographs were normal in 13 of 26 mri-positive hips ; six were asymptomatic . mri was more effective in detecting early cases than conventional 99mtc-diphosphonate or 99mtc-sulfur colloid ( sc ) bone scanning . there were no false-negative mri examinations , but diphosphonate scans were negative in nine hips with normal radiography and abnormal mri . sulfur colloid scans were normal in only two hips with positive mri , but sc scan results were often equivocal because isotope deficits were bilaterally symmetric . the results of this preliminary investigation imply that mri has extraordinary sensitivity for the detection of early ischemic necrosis . unlike radionuclide scanning , mri shows the exact location and extent of femoral head necrosis . because mri is expensive , it should be used in a cost-effective manner . therefore , mri is best suited for the diagnosis of early cases where less expensive tests are negative or equivocal and as a precursor to more costly interventional procedures , such as core biopsy study or decompression . 
traumatic dislocation and fracture dislocation of the hip . a long-term follow-up study . of 84 fracture dislocations of the hip reviewed , 73 were posterior fracture dislocations , nine were central , and two were obturator . fifty-five were followed from one to 30 years ( average , 4 1 / 2 years ) . the patients ' ages ranged from three to 83 years ( average , 33.1 years ) . all had primary attempt at closed reduction , with 15 treated with subsequent open reduction ( six immediate and nine delayed ) . satisfactory results were obtained in 42 % of hips treated with closed reduction and 40 % of those treated with open reduction . statistical analysis of the results was done . a stable closed reduction produced results as satisfactory as open reduction . when followed for a sufficiently long time interval , severe fracture dislocations , regardless of treatment mode , caused unsatisfactory results . 
proximal tibial transfixion for skeletal traction . an anatomic study of neurovascular structures . pin placement in the proximal tibia is commonly performed by passing the pins percutaneously , without visualization of the underlying neurovascular and anatomic structures . neurovascular injuries are uncommon . complications are avoidable through a thorough familiarity with the location of the neurovascular structures . six cadaveric legs were dissected and the three-dimensional anatomy of the peroneal nerve in the proximal one-third of the leg defined , with the use of profile radiography . the nerve is situated predominantly posterior to the tibia . the pin should be passed through the middle of the tibia ( in cross section ) strictly in the coronal plane to avoid neural damage . skeletal traction or external fixation pins may , therefore , safely be placed in the proximal tibia . 
survivorship comparison of tharies and conventional hip arthroplasty in patients younger than 40 years old . early and high failure rates for conventional hip replacements in young and active patients are well documented . the hypothesis tested in this study is total hip articular replacement by internal eccentric shells ( tharies ) resurfacing hip arthroplasty is a sufficiently durable alternative to conventional total hips in patients younger than 40 years old . survivorship analysis techniques were applied to 106 tharies and 98 conventional hip replacements . the primary outcome variable investigated was time to failure , as measured by the need for revision of the prosthesis in the absence of sepsis . other definitions of prosthesis failure were also investigated . analysis revealed that even within this young , high-risk population there were subpopulations with different risks for failure . the lowest risk patients comprised all rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis ( jra ) patients , regardless of age . the intermediate risk patients comprised all non-ra , non-jra patients older than 30 years of age and the highest-risk patients were all non-ra , non-jra patients younger than 30 years of age . a comparison of tharies and conventional prostheses within each of these three subpopulations revealed similar patterns of failure over time , with the conventional total hip replacement having significantly better hip function than the tharies group only in the highest-risk population , when using a failure definition of revision surgery for aseptic loosening . a broader and more important conclusion was that all acrylic-fixed implants , tharies or thrs are predicted to undergo early mechanical loosenings in younger-than-30 , non-ra , non-jra patients . in patients younger than 30 years age acrylic fixation of tha is inadvisable . 
the energy cost of walking with arthritis of the hip and knee . the physiologic energy expenditure of walking was measured in patients with severe arthritis . nine patients were tested following girdlestone hip resection arthroplasty , six patients prior to total knee arthroplasty ( tka ) for unilateral osteoarthritis of the knee , and 49 rheumatoid arthritis patients prior to unilateral tka ; 27 were retested after operation . the results were compared with previously published pre- and postoperative data for total hip arthroplasty ( tha ) following primary osteoarthritis . there were severe energetic penalties caused by rheumatoid or osteoarthritis involving the hip or knee or following girdlestone arthroplasty . walking speed was severely reduced in all groups ( range , 33-46 m / minute ) . the rate of oxygen consumption was not significantly greater than the mean rate of oxygen uptake for normal subjects ; however , the oxygen cost per meter travelled was elevated because of the slow walking speed . the heart rate was significantly elevated in all patient groups . the elevated cardiac response can be accounted for on the basis of deconditioning resulting from the patients ' pain , limited ambulatory activities , and the systemic effects of rheumatoid disease . in addition , the elevated cardiac response may be caused by added physical exertion by the arms in patients on crutches or walkers . the improvements in speed and energy cost were the same for the group of rheumatoid patients tested after unilateral tka as in the group of patients tested before and after tha . the clinician can anticipate the same magnitude of improvement from surgery in a rheumatoid patient as in an osteoarthritis patient if the primary joint disease is restricted to a single joint . 
torsion-transmitting properties of the hind foot . the torsion-transmitting capacity of the hind foot was studied experimentally in ten cadaver specimens . an average of 0.44 degrees of outward rotation of the tibia occurred for every degree of supination of the foot . the relationship was linear . there was less transmission of torsion during dorsal extension than during plantar flexion of the ankle . the joint complex of the hind foot somewhat resembles a universal joint except that the distal fork of the universal joint changes its configuration through its range of motion . this distal fork , consisting of the calcaneus , the cuboid , and the navicular , together with the central piece , the talus , constitutes a three-arm link system , which explains the configurational change . the process of balance when standing on one leg and when walking on uneven surfaces , when the torsion-transmitting effect plays a central role , can be controlled as rotations in the hip joint . this torsion-transmitting model helps to elucidate the trauma mechanisms of various ankle fractures . it also may explain why anterior knee pain due to malalignment can be relieved with supinating foot supports . 
bone regeneration under the influence of a bone morphogenetic protein ( bmp ) beta tricalcium phosphate ( tcp ) composite in skull trephine defects in dogs . beta tricalcium phosphate ( tcp ) was employed as a nonimmunogenic biodegradable delivery system for bovine bone morphogenetic protein ( bmp ) . a bmp / tcp composite was implanted in adult dogs with skull trephine defects of a critical size of 1.4 cm that would otherwise remain unhealed in the lifetime of the individual . bmp / tcp implants induced 91 % -100 % incorporation by deposits of new bone . in comparison , control implants of tcp impregnated with bovine serum albumin ( bsa / tcp ) induced 0 % -8 % incorporation , or only marginal host bed reactive bone formation . the retention of unabsorbed tcp in the host bone four months after implantation suggests that further research should be encouraged to obtain a formulation of sintered calcium phosphate that could be resorbed more rapidly and in the process more completely replaced by bone . 
the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis of the hip . evidence for primary osteocyte death . osteocyte viability was investigated in femoral head bone removed from 38 patients with chronic hip disease , with the use of a histochemical stain to demonstrate lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh ) activity in osteocytes . where the osteocyte cytoplasm did not show ldh activity , the cell was considered dead ; when several adjacent osteocytes were dead , the bone in that area was regarded as nonviable . the preoperative diagnoses were idiopathic osteoarthritis in 25 , chondrocalcinosis in six , rheumatoid arthritis in two , paget 's disease in two , avascular necrosis in two , and congenital dislocation of the hip in one patient . in 16 of the patients with idiopathic osteoarthritis and the two with avascular necrosis , nonviable osteocytes were present in the central regions of many trabeculae , these areas usually being separated by cement lines from viable bone . the pattern suggested previous necrosis of part of the femoral head , with later new bone formation . the pattern was not observed in either control subjects , or patients with known articular disease , such as chondrocalcinosis . bone collapse of variable severity was apparent radiographically in nine patients with histologic bone death , but not in other patients . bone death is commonly present in idiopathic osteoarthritis and could be a cause rather than a result of the arthritis . 
treatment of metacarpal and phalangeal fractures in noncompliant patients . uncooperative patients are a problem in any practice setting ; however , this is particularly true in large urban county hospitals . treatment of these patients was unsatisfactory unless special measures were undertaken . behavior characteristics of noncompliant patients must be identified . prospective identification of these individuals was found to be the key element in successful treatment . special , heavy duty splints using proper hand posture were found to be most effective . if surgical treatment was required , then rigid fracture fixation was more beneficial than other forms of internal immobilization . 
unstable metacarpal and phalangeal fracture treatment with screws and plates . plate and screw fixation of the metacarpals and phalanges has limited indications but can provide crucial assistance to the reconstructive hand surgeon in the treatment of complex fractures . screws are indicated for unstable , long oblique or spiral fractures of the metacarpals and phalanges , intraarticular fractures with articular surface involvement in excess of 25 % with or without comminution , and intraarticular condylar , t-condylar , and y-condylar fractures . plates at the metacarpal level are indicated for segmental defects with substance loss , fractures with extreme comminution , and unstable short oblique or transverse diaphyseal fractures . plate fixation of phalangeal fractures is seldom necessary but helpful in treating segmental defects or extreme comminution of diaphysis or metaphysis as well as intraarticular t- or y-condylar fractures . screw and plate fixation at the metacarpal levels , when appropriately applied , renders rigid osteosynthesis while inflicting little to no interference on the surrounding soft tissues . screws can be applied with little to no soft tissue interference throughout the proximal phalanx and proximal and distal aspects of the middle phalanx . plate fixation for middle phalangeal fractures is limited to salvage situations for preservation of skeletal length . the essentials for successful use of implants are a hand surgeon well versed in a variety of internal fixation techniques including the association for the study of internal fixation ( asif ) technique of screw and plate fixation , a meticulous respect for , and protection of , the soft tissues , and a facility for delivery of functional aftercare . 
use of a minicondylar plate for metacarpal and phalangeal periarticular injuries . the minicondylar plate fixation system is a new method for stable internal metaphyseal bone fixation about the metacarpophalangeal ( mp ) and proximal interphalangeal ( pip ) joints . indications for its use are rigid stabilization of fracture , osteotomy , and the bony components of composite tissue transfer . the device should be used in deference to other techniques when early active range of motion is pursued . its best use is in the face of combined injury or osteotomy with tenolyses / capsulotomy . this implant permits stabilization of small epiphyseal fragments with minimal interference of joint function and perhaps a reduction of irritation of the extensor aponeurosis . disadvantages include the need for careful preoperative planning because of this implant 's small size and unforgiving tolerances of application . the data is included for the first 65 consecutive cases of its use . despite the institution of range of motion therapy within five days in 77 % of the cases , there were no nonunions . two cases of delayed union were successfully treated by addition of cancellous bone grafts without revision of the fixation devices . problems included malignments ( three cases ) , infections ( two cases ) , and soft tissue coverage ( four cases ) . aseptic necrosis of bone is associated with metacarpal head fractures and is seen with the use of this implant in treating such intraarticular fractures . 
complications of plate fixation in the hand skeleton . plate fixation of metacarpal and phalangeal fractures is designed to provide rigid internal fixation in order to facilitate early motion and thereby minimize joint and tendon complications . in a series of plate fixations , 16 of 38 ( 42 % ) of proximal phalangeal and metacarpal shaft fractures developed complications of stiffness , malunion , nonunion , and tendon rupture . complications occurred more frequently for phalangeal than for metacarpal fractures and more frequently when there were associated bone or soft tissue injuries . the technique is demanding and secondary procedures are frequently required . 
skeletal fixation in digital replantation . use of the " h " plate . many forms of bone fixation have been advocated for use in digital replantation , and successful series have been reported using such methods as intramedullary kirschner-wire fixation , crossed kirschner-wires , bone pegs , double-headed screws , and bone plates . symptomatic nonunions have been rare with these various types of bone fixation . the functional results that have been reported are usually considered good ; however , amputation of digits through the proximal phalanges is still a difficult area in which to obtain satisfactory function as measured by proximal interphalangeal joint motion . this may be related to a reluctance on the part of the surgeon to use early mobilization techniques for fear of disrupting marginally stabilized fractures . the " h " plate provided rigid fixation in six patients . this technique promotes earlier mobilization and shows promise of improved functional results . 
bone healing in the hand . fracture healing in the hand is not an isolated goal . the functional end result is of paramount importance . the means of achieving a good functional result either by secondary bone healing over callus formation or through primary bone healing by direct remodeling is unimportant . by understanding both types of fracture healing , we can choose the proper treatment , and by handling the bony tissue correctly , we can avoid problems . 
skeletal stabilization for digital replantation surgery . use of intraosseous wiring . bony fixation is the first priority in any digital replantation procedure . because of time considerations , however , fracture stabilization is frequently less than optimal and impairs mobilization and rehabilitation significantly . ordinary methods of digital fracture stabilization have proven inadequate when they are applied to replantation surgery . the technique of intraosseous wiring provides an additional option in the management of bone fixation in certain circumstances , and it may be used alone or in conjunction with a variety of other methods . familiarity with the advantages and disadvantages of different fixation techniques allows for optimal intraoperative planning and helps maximize the chances for an optimally functional result . 
treatment of unstable metacarpal and phalangeal fractures with tension band wiring techniques . the techniques of tension band fixation are applied in the treatment of metacarpal and phalangeal fractures . the technique uses standard , readily available materials . the variability of the fixation techniques allows for secure fixation of virtually any long bone fracture in the hand , even when other methods are not applicable . nonunion , malunion , loss of fixation , infection , or tendon rupture have not occurred . the technique allows for early active motion and return to full activity usually within for to six weeks . most patients achieve full painless motion in that time . 
expandable intramedullary device for treatment of fractures in the hand . because the hand tolerates disuse so poorly , the beginning of early motion following fractures is important in achieving early restoration of function . this report concerns the use of a unique , expandable intramedullary device for internal fixation of metacarpal or phalangeal shaft fractures that renders enough intrinsic stability that motion may be started early without fear of loss of reduction . the device is applicable for transverse or short oblique fractures and consists of a cylindrical apparatus made of titanium that allows for collapse in the circumferential diameter . it is introduced into the medullary canal in its collapsed state , and then is released to allow reexpansion into its normal diameter in the canal with the fracture reduced over it . this gives excellent fixation and affords stability approaching that of normal bone . minimal postoperative immobilization is needed and early restoration of motion is possible . the device may also be used to immobilize metacarpal bones or phalanges following osteotomies , and it appears to be excellent for fixation of the bone in digits to be replanted . no complications have occurred in the reported series . 
external fixation for skeletal stabilization of severe open fractures of the hand . the successful use of external fixation to stabilize severe open fractures elsewhere in the body has led to its adaptation in the hand . it is particularly useful when extensive wounds prohibit internal fixation and when comminution and bone loss render the fracture difficult to control by other methods . external fixation permits simultaneous wound access and fracture management . it can be used alone or adjunctively with other methods of fixation such as kirschner wires , screws , or plates for definitive fracture management . alternatively , external fixation can be used for provisional fracture management until wound conditions permit the application of other means of osteosynthesis . 
alternative methods of reproduction . effects on the child . artificial donor insemination ( di ) , surrogate parenting , in vitro fertilization , and embryo transfer are alternative methods of reproduction being utilized with increasing frequency . technological developments are being studied in detail . because of the secrecy inherent in the families involved , there has been little written describing the emotional and psychological well-being of the participants . significant factors , such as unlimited pregnancies per donor , lack of recordkeeping of the genetic background of each insemination , need for psychological counseling of the parents , the impact of the " family secret " of the pregnancy , and the well-being of the offspring , have not been adequately addressed . there has been little effort to make use of our experience in adoption in relation to many of these same areas . no medical guidelines or legislation exist . the inherent problems associated with these parenting methods and practices are discussed along with recommendations for improvement . 
monitoring the resuscitation of preterm infants in the delivery room using pulse oximetry . the first few minutes after birth are a critical time of adaptation of the newborn infant to extrauterine life . the adequacy of that adaptation has been evaluated by means of the summed apgar score . in preterm infants , apgar score may correlate less with adequacy of cardiopulmonary function because of developmental immaturity . measurement of arterial oxygen saturation by means of pulse oximetry offers a physiologic , real time method of monitoring the progress of cardiopulmonary adaptation by which the clinician can evaluate the need for and success of resuscitative efforts . four preterm infants are reported in whom pulse oximetry was useful in assessing the changes in oxygen saturation during resuscitation . 
blood pressure in full-term healthy neonates . the blood pressure ( bp ) of 46 healthy full-term infants was studied in the first 6 consecutive days of life using the dinamap . the bp gradually increased with age to peak at 4 or 5 days of age before subsiding a little at 6 days . there was a significant increase in bp values from the second to the third day of life in both the systolic and diastolic pressures during the waking state but not during sleep . the waking and sleeping bp , almost identical in the first day , diverged with increasing age , although no significant difference could be demonstrated between the respective values during the 6 days of study in systolic , diastolic , or mean arterial pressure . bp values obtained in the left and right upper limbs and right lower limb were similar for the respective days , with minor variations in pattern . the waking and sleeping heart rate , identical on the first day , also diverged with increase in age but again no significant difference was observed on the first 6 days . there was no correlation between the bp and heart rate on any of the 6 days . however , a positive correlation between the daily mean systolic pressure and heart rate only in the waking state was observed over the course of the 6-day study period . 
intravenous drug administration to low birthweight infants . 
impact of the diagnosis of aids on hospital care of an infant . detailed analysis of caretaker response to the first infant newly diagnosed with aids at a university hospital was done by review of nursing notes for three periods : before diagnosis of aids , after diagnosis , and after psychiatric consultation . five consultation questions were posed , and the findings on investigation of these questions are discussed . it was found that the percentage of time that prn medication was given dropped after diagnosis of aids but rose above the initial level after the consultation . the number of times per shift the nurse touched the baby ( tlcs ) was not found to be associated with use of prn medication ; rather it was explained by which nurse was caring for the child . this study focuses on variations in nursing care of one infant to illustrate how variation in caretaker response can amplify the range of perturbations of the infant 's behavioral response . it is speculated that caretakers of patients with aids may normally have feelings considered unacceptable in medical settings , including fear , blaming the patient , or a wish to avoid the patient . such feelings are more difficult to tolerate in the care of children or infants and are superimposed upon the familiar stains associated with the care of chronically ill or dying pediatric patients . 
nonsurgical ( conservative ) treatment of giant omphalocele . a report of 10 cases . between january 1970 and december 1984 , 65 patients with a congenital anterior abdominal wall defect were admitted to the pediatric surgical center of the st . radbound hospital , nijmegen , the netherlands . there were 39 cases of omphalocele . ten had giant omphalocele , defined as omphalocele that could not be closed primarily . in these cases , a conservative method of treatment was used . the results are reported of these 10 cases of giant omphalocele with special emphasis on mortality , complications , and length of hospital stay . mean hospital stay was 95 days . local infection did not present serious problems . sepsis occurred in half the patients but was managed with antibiotics . there was one case of late volvulus of the stomach . all local applications , if used regularly , gave rise to complications . two cases of hypothyroidism caused by the application of povidon-iodine and one case of alcohol intoxication were observed . in early years , one child was lost due to mercury poisoning . there was one early and one late death unrelated to the procedure . 
hypospadias and urethral abnormalities in down syndrome . in the course of general medical evaluations of 149 children and adolescents ( younger than 21 years of age ) and 11 adults with down syndrome , five of the 77 males were noted to have dorsal urethral duplications . in all instances , there proved to be a single urethral meatus . the second opening led into a pit or blind channel , reflecting the presence of a distal hypospadias . in these five patients , laboratory studies were normal , nephrology histories were negative , and radiographic studies did not demonstrate any anatomic abnormalities of the urethra , ureters , or kidneys . these findings indicate that there is an increased occurrence of distal hypospadias in males with down syndrome that may present with dorsal urethral duplications and / or glanular hypospadias . 
epispadias with complete prepuce and phimosis in a neonate . a rare type of epispadias in a neonate is described in which a complete phimotic prepuce was present . in this situation , the accurate diagnosis is very difficult and may be easily overlooked in the neonatal period . the broad , spadelike glans , the dorsally directed prepucial opening , and the urinary stream are signs previously described . the special shape of the raphe penis and the depression between the corpora cavernosa felt by palpation of the glans are useful new clinical signs to suspect this type of epispadias . 
critical care in obstetrics . 
the differential effect of arginine vasopressin on skin blood flow in man . physiological elevation of plasma vasopressin in man results in a small reduction in skeletal muscle blood flow but the action on skin blood flow has not been reported . we have studied eight male subjects during infusion of arginine vasopressin ( avp ) at 2 units / h for 90 min . plasma levels of avp , measured by radioimmunoassay , rose to 68.5 ( 7.0 ) pg / ml , mean ( sem ) . forearm and finger blood flow was measured with an electronic plethysmograph , hand interdigital skin-fold blood flow with a laser-doppler blood flow meter and facial temperature with a thermocouple . all subjects developed marked facial pallor during infusion of avp , facial temperature falling from 34.2 ( 0.2 ) to 32.7 ( 0.1 ) degrees c ( p less than 0.001 ) then rising to 33.7 ( 0.1 ) degrees c ( p less than 0.01 ) after avp was stopped . hand interdigital skin-fold blood flow also fell from 2.6 ( 0.02 ) to 2.3 ( 0.02 ) v ( p less than 0.001 ) and rose sharply to 3.6 ( 0.2 ) v ( p less than 0.001 ) on stopping the infusion . there were small changes in forearm and finger blood flow : both rose , from 6.3 ( 0.1 ) to 6.9 ( 0.1 ) ( p less than 0.001 ) and 46.1 ( 1.0 ) to 54.3 ( 0.7 ) ml min-1 100 ml-1 ( p less than 0.001 ) respectively . neither fell when avp was stopped . heart rate remained unchanged throughout . these results indicate that high physiological levels of avp , comparable with those attained during physical stress , produced a fall in blood flow in the face and interdigital skin-fold of the hand consistent with a fall in nutritional blood flow to skin . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
changing effects on erythrocyte sodium and potassium during the development of chronic renal failure with anaemia in rats . rats were studied 7 days and 17 days after the onset of renal failure which was induced by a surgical technique . plasma urea , creatinine ( pcr ) and potassium had increased after 7 days ; plasma potassium increased much more after 17 days but pcr was slightly lower . renal failure caused resetting of erythropoietic control to a lower level of packed cell volume ( pcv ) . after 7 days renal failure some rats had a low pcv , whereas others still had a normal pcv apparently due to slower erythrocyte destruction of pre-renal failure cells . after 7 days renal failure , rats with a normal pcv had an increased erythrocyte membrane leak to potassium that resulted in a low erythrocyte potassium [ k+ ] rbc . this was accompanied by an increase in active sodium pump units [ increased ouabain sensitive sodium flux ( fo ) and its rate constant ( ko ) ] that caused erythrocyte sodium ( [ na+ ] rbc ) to fall . the increased active pump units retarded the fall in [ k+ ] rbc and may have extended the life of the normal erythrocytes in the renal failure environment . the pcv was below normal in all rats after 17 days renal failure . [ k+ ] rbc was increased and since ko was normal there appeared to be compensation to produce erythrocytes with reduced membrane leak to potassium with longer standing renal failure . pcr was only related to pcv after 17 days renal failure and not in the earlier phase of erythrocyte destruction . the changes in erythrocyte membrane permeability were very significantly related to pcv after 17 days . 
implication of thromboxane in frusemide diuresis in rats . administration of the thromboxane a2 ( txa2 ) synthase inhibitor oky 1581 to rats significantly increased the urine output elicited by the loop diuretic frusemide . the administration of the txa2 receptor antagonist sq 29548 significantly increased the diuretic effect of frusemide . another txa2 receptor antagonist l-640 , 035 increased significantly the diuretic effect of frusemide . both the sodium excretion rate and urine osmolar excretion rate were significantly increased in rats treated with the txa2 synthase inhibitor oky 1581 and frusemide . the data suggest that txa2 is released during frusemide-induced diuresis in rats , and the released txa2 has an opposing antidiuretic effect . key words : antidiuretic hormone , frusemide diuresis , thromboxane inhibitor and antagonists . 
the osmotic thresholds for thirst and vasopressin release are similar in healthy man . the relationship between thirst perception and plasma osmolality was studied during hypertonic and physiological saline infusion in ten healthy volunteers . thirst perception was quantified using a linear visual analogue scale which volunteers marked at intervals during the infusion periods . infusion of hypertonic saline caused a steady rise in plasma osmolality together with a progressive linear increase in thirst perception and also plasma arginine vasopressin . no significant changes in thirst , plasma osmolality or plasma arginine vasopressin occurred during infusion of physiological saline . linear regression analysis of the results defined the functions . thirst ( cm ) = 0.3 ( plasma osmolality-281 ) ( r = +0.92 , p less than 0.001 ) and plasma arginine vasopressin ( pmol / l ) = 0.4 ( plasma osmolality-285 ) ( r = +0.96 , p less than 0.001 ) . the osmolar threshold for thirst onset thus defined ( 281 mosmol / kg ) was much lower than in previous studies and similar to the theoretical osmolar threshold for vasopressin release ( 285 mosmol / kg ) . we conclude that thirst perception rises in a progressive fashion throughout a wide range of plasma osmolality and that the osmolar threshold for thirst onset is similar to the theoretical osmolar threshold for vasopressin release . the results are compatible with the concept of either a single osmoreceptor subserving both thirst and vasopressin release , or two osmoreceptors sharing similar functional characteristics . 
morphological and functional characteristics of isolated resistance vessels in advanced uraemia . in order to obtain direct information on the properties of the resistance vasculature of patients with advanced uraemia , a technique was developed to dissect out small arteries ( internal diameter about 165 microns ) from biopsies of subcutaneous fat . such arteries responded in a concentration-dependent manner to noradrenaline and angiotensin ii , and the maximal force developed suggested that the vessels were fully viable . although the biopsies were normally taken during operations under general anaesthesia , biopsies taken under local anaesthesia also appeared to be fully viable , suggesting that this technique may prove useful as a general method for studying the intrinsic vascular properties of humans . biopsies were taken from 20 patients with uraemia , all of whom were treated with chronic intermittent dialysis , and 11 control subjects ; up to three vessels were examined per biopsy . the uraemic state was not associated with changes in vascular morphology , or in vascular reactivity or sensitivity to noradrenaline , angiotensin ii , potassium or calcium . however , for the uraemic patients and for the controls there was a positive correlation between mean blood pressure and the ratio of vessel media thickness to lumen diameter , as well as a negative correlation between mean blood pressure and vessel active media stress . the results suggest that uraemia treated with dialysis may not be associated with altered properties of the resistance vasculature . however , it appears that uraemic hypertension is associated with both morphological and functional abnormalities of the resistance vasculature . 
withdrawal of salt supplementation from adrenalectomized wistar rats distinguishes between those animals with , and those without , adrenocortical insufficiency . the effects of replacing a 1 % nacl drinking solution with na+-free water for 2 days on body weight and fluid and electrolyte balances were studied in adrenalectomized and sham-operated rats . eight weeks after operation , after the animals had been drinking na+-free water for 2 days , some adrenalectomized animals ( about 75 % ; designated group experienced body weight losses which were outside the 99 % confidence limits for the sham-operated rats ( -9.2 to +5.3 g ) whereas the remainder ( designated group 2 ) were indistinguishable from the controls . the body weight loss in group 1 was associated with negative fluid , na+ and k+ balances . in group 2 rats , fluid balance was maintained as well as in the sham-operated rats , but their handling of na+ and k+ was different . in a separate experiment , plasma aldosterone , corticosterone , catecholamine and solute concentrations were measured in adrenalectomized rats from groups 1 and 2 ( selected on the basis of body weight loss whilst drinking na+-free water ) and sham-operated rats , after drinking na+-free water for 2 days . in group 1 animals , plasma aldosterone levels were unmeasurable and corticosterone was extremely low ( less than 5 % of controls ) . in group 2 , aldosterone was measurable but low , and corticosterone was higher than in group 1 but lower than in sham-operated rats . in line with these findings , animals in group 1 , but not those in group 2 , were hyponatraemic and hyperkalaemic . these results are consistent with the activation of latent adrenocortical tissue in the group 2 animals . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
muscle morphology and enzymes in proximal and distal muscle groups of lower limb from patients with corticosteroid treated rheumatoid arthritis : the relationship to maximal isokinetic muscle strength . abnormal morphological and enzymatic patterns in the lateral vastus muscle have been found in women with corticosteroid treated rheumatoid arthritis . by means of biopsies from the lateral heads of right gastrocnemius muscles , the histology and enzyme activities were compared with those found in right vastus lateralis biopsies . the findings were correlated with isometric and isokinetic strength of the plantar flexors . the relative occurrence of type i fibres in the gastrocnemius muscle was 46.4 + / - 18.7 ( sd ) % , which is significantly higher than found in the vastus lateralis [ 35.7 + / - 13.3 ( sd ) % ] ( p less than 0.03 ) . the relatively lower percentage of type ii fibres in the gastrocnemius muscle was due to a relatively low percentage of type ii a fibres [ mean 27.9 + / - 16.4 ( sd ) % ] ( p less than 0.05 ) . the area of type i fibres in the gastrocnemius muscle was 26.1 x 10 ( 2 ) + / - 10.0 ( sd ) micron 2 , which is 74 % of the mean area for type i fibres found in the vastus lateralis ( p less than 0.01 ) . the area of type ii fibres in the gastrocnemius was 14.9 x 10 ( 2 ) + / - 7.1 ( sd ) micron 2 , which is 77 % of the mean area for type ii fibres found in the vastus lateralis . the isokinetic muscle strength of the plantar flexors in corticosteroid treated patients with rheumatoid arthritis was reduced to less than 50 % at all angular velocities when compared with healthy women . the same difference was found in the knee extensors . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
the influence of prednisone on the muscle morphology and muscle enzymes in patients with rheumatoid arthritis . thirty-five female patients , mean age 63 years , suffering from rheumatoid arthritis participated the study . twenty patients had been on long-term low-dose corticosteroid treatment . fifteen patients had never received corticosteroids . a control group of 15 age- and sex-matched healthy subjects was also studied . examination of muscle biopsies from the ( right ) vastus lateralis and measurements of isokinetic and isometric knee-extension muscle strength were performed in all subjects . rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with corticosteroid showed a low percentage of type i fibres , mean 35.7 ( range 17-66 ) % compared with patients who did not receive corticosteroid ( p less than 0.005 ) . the latter group did not differ from the controls . the muscle fibre areas also were affected in the corticosteroid treated rheumatoid patients . type i and type ii mean fibre areas were reduced by 32 % and 50 % , respectively , when compared with non-prednisone treated patients . the latter group did not differ from the controls in this respect . a correlation was found between the isokinetic muscle strength of the knee extensors and the mean areas of type i and type ii in patients treated with prednisone ( r = 0.48 , p less than 0.05 and r = 0.58 , p less than 0.02 respectively ) . no such correlation was found when using isometric measurements of the knee extensors . a positive correlation was found in both groups of rheumatoid arthritis patients between the areas of the type i and type ii fibres ( r = 0.66 - 0.68 , p less than 0.05 - 0.02 ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
intracellular acid-base and electrolyte metabolism in skeletal muscle of patients with chronic obstructive lung disease and acute respiratory failure . quadriceps femoris muscle needle biopsies were performed in 21 patients with chronic obstructive lung disease ( cold ) and acute respiratory failure ( arf ) and in 21 age-matched healthy control subjects . muscle samples were analysed to obtain intracellular bicarbonate and ph values from total acid-labile carbon dioxide content . muscle potassium , magnesium and sodium content were also determined , as well as water compartments . skeletal muscle of cold patients with arf showed intracellular acidosis and reduced potassium and magnesium content . total muscle water increase was linked to extracellular water increment . it was concluded that in cold patients with arf an overall derangement of skeletal muscle metabolism is present . 
effects of intra-arterial arginine-vasopressin infusions on peripheral blood flows in conscious dogs . we reported in an earlier study that intravenous infusions of arginine-vasopressin ( avp ) , 220 pg min-1 kg-1 for 1 h , substantially reduced blood flow to the skin , skeletal muscle , pancreas , colon , small intestine , abdominal fat and myocardium in conscious dogs . in the present study , we infused avp directly into the artery supplying these organs and tissues in order to determine the relative contribution of local versus systemic mechanisms in the vascular resistance changes previously observed . regional blood flows were measured with radioactive microspheres in conscious , chronically instrumented dogs before and during intra-arterial infusions of avp administered into the left axillary artery ( n = 6 ) , the left coronary artery ( n = 6 ) , and the cranial mesenteric artery ( n = 6 ) . the infusion rates were calculated to increase local , target organ plasma concentrations of avp to the levels reached in our previous study while minimizing systemic changes . left axillary avp artery infusion significantly reduced skin and compact bone blood flow , but had no effect on skeletal muscle blood flow . intracoronary avp infusion had no effect on myocardial blood flow nor on cardiac output . intramesenteric avp infusion had no effect on blood flow to the colon , small intestine and abdominal fat , but significantly reduced blood flow to those areas of the pancreas which received blood from the cannulated artery . measurements in a limited number of dogs indicated that the local axillary and mesenteric venous levels of avp were similar when the hormone was infused systemically at a rate of 220 pg min-1 kg-1 or intra-arterially at a lower rate . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
fatty acid synthesis in vitro by liver tissue from control subjects and patients with alcoholic liver disease . percutaneous liver biopsy specimens were obtained from 11 control subjects , 24 alcoholic patients and six diabetic patients with mild to severe fatty liver and incubated in krebs-henseleit buffer containing 3h2o . the incorporation of 3h into fatty acid was measured and the absolute rate of fatty acid synthesis calculated . fatty acid synthesis rates were significantly lower in alcoholic fatty liver than in controls . fatty acid synthesis rates were similar in controls and patients with diabetic fatty livers . addition of 50 mmol / l ethanol did not alter the fatty acid synthesis rates in vitro . it is concluded that enhanced lipogenesis is not the major cause of fatty liver in patients with alcoholic fatty liver . 
cerebrospinal fluid gamma-aminobutyric acid levels in dogs with chronic portosystemic encephalopathy . cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) levels were measured in a dog model of spontaneous chronic portosystemic encephalopathy . dogs with congenital portacaval shunts ( intra- or extra-hepatic ) develop neurological features of abnormal psychomotor behaviour and depressed consciousness that are consistent with the symptoms of chronic portosystemic encephalopathy in humans . in the five dogs studied , plasma ammonia was elevated , as was csf tryptophan , both usual biochemical abnormalities in portosystemic encephalopathy . csf levels of gaba in five dogs with portosystemic encephalopathy ( 100 + / - 13 pmol / ml ) were not significantly different from those in five control dogs ( 96 + / - 14 pmol / ml ) . csf levels of gaba were not altered after ammonia infusion . if enhanced gaba-ergic neurotransmission , due to influx of gut-derived gaba into the brain , is responsible for the pathophysiology of chronic portosystemic encephalopathy in this model , it is not reflected by increased levels of gaba in csf . 
carrier-mediated efflux of ketone bodies in isolated rat hepatocytes . the rate of efflux of ketone bodies has been studied in isolated hepatocytes prepared from starved rats and preloaded with d-3- [ 14c ] hydroxybutyrate . efflux of ketone bodies was temperature-dependent , saturable and inhibited by alpha-cyano-3-hydroxycinnamate and phloretin . the rate of efflux was also reduced by 6 mmol / l lactate and pyruvate added to the external medium . under conditions of simulated metabolic acidosis in the hepatocyte suspension medium , ketone body efflux rate was reduced . the experimental data suggest that hepatic plasma membrane ketone body transit is carrier-mediated . 
clinical and economic practice of quality control . 
quality assurance of the analytic process : pre- and postanalytic variation . this article attempts to define and identify sources of variation in laboratory analysis that occur predominantly " away " from the analytic bench . problems in the derivation and application of reference ranges are reviewed and sources of non-analytic error are " located " within the entire testing cycle . reference sources are presented . 
a quality control system and its application to clinical chemistry . a quality control system is presented that involves the quality control log for documenting data , decisions , and corrective actions . it emphasizes the use of the calibration work record , cusum , and comparison of means to monitor acute and chronic drift and method bias . it introduces clinically useful limits criteria for efficient and cost-effective quality control . 
quality assurance in a large reference laboratory . the success of a quality assurance system is contingent on close adherence to each protocol , from preparation of the patient to issuance of the final result . in the event that the system experiences failures at any point , the quality of laboratory data may be jeopardized . again , the system requires support not just from management and personnel employed at the technical level , but from the entire organization . it requires a complete commitment to quality and to the provision of a high level of service . such quality assurance programs have been highly successful in the manufacturing industry . for an example , one need look no further than the domination of certain world markets by japanese industries . their commitment to quality and their system-wide quality control efforts have been essential to the success and growth of their organizations . currently , systems that provide high levels of quality assurance are under scrutiny in an effort to reduce costs . as more effort is placed into monitoring an organization 's quality , the expenditure of non-revenue producing dollars increases . a large organization should question these expenditures . however , when evaluating such a program , it should be realized that the costs associated with the pursuit of quality are often offset by savings realized through improved processes . further , quality is a salable commodity . its lack may be costly . according to westgard et al . , costs of quality can be grouped into prevention costs , appraisal costs , and failure costs . prevention costs include those costs incurred through the development of sound analytic procedures and adequate training of technical personnel . appraisal costs comprise those costs incurred as a result of challenging the analytic procedure as well as the entire system . failure costs represent the dollars spent when out-of-control assays have to be repeated . an important step in evaluating potential savings produced by a quality control program is assigning a dollar value to the cost of repeating an assay . in general , as the quality of an organization 's product increases , the expense of providing the product decreases . likewise , as productivity increases , the cost of testing decreases . increased quality and productivity provide a higher percentage of profit . as the profitability of an organization increases , the additional resources required to investigate new methods , themselves a valuable contribution to quality assurance , are provided . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) 
quality assurance in home laboratory testing . in review , one is compelled to the notion that a variety of the aforementioned thoughts become pre-eminent in assuring quality . the selection of the tests available for home testing is crucial . they should be divided into categories of single encounter tests and multiple use tests . the single encounter implies a test that has an extremely high degree of reliability and is likely to achieve an answer to the question asked . this should relate to a disease or process for which potential favorable treatment can be achieved or which may have a major favorable impact on public health . in this category one thinks in terms of the worldwide prevalence of hepatitis b and other infectious diseases that are particularly common in third world countries . yet , these are not " markets " likely to be able to afford this testing . similarly , these societies are not currently sophisticated in terms of application of preventive measures . on the other hand , major benefits could be projected from the other category of testing , namely , therapeutic monitoring in the hands of individuals who will repetitively test for the same substance in the same manner . this includes not only diabetes but other conditions that are monitored for drug therapy , including seizure disorders and bronchospasm . inherent in this aspect is the requirement for meaningful and ongoing instruction in proper testing methodology and recording of results . the incorporation of some type of memory device to enforce this aspect of testing appears extremely desirable , if not mandatory . finally , we must consider the potential for misuse of the single test type of device . one suspects that it would be highly desirable that any test made available for self-testing should also be mandated as accessible through certified laboratories at the request of an individual , which would at least provide reliable performance of the test with a quality result . the development of the concept of quality assurance in home testing is in its infancy and will require continuing evolution . 
the state of quality control : a critique . quality control of clinical laboratory testing must ultimately assure that test results consist of medically reliable information that is received where needed , when needed . this review shows that , despite the sophistication and complexity of current quality control procedures , numerous problems continue to prevent the achievement of this ideal . solutions to some of these problems are suggested . 
copd : causes , treatment , and risk for lung cancer . 
diagnosis and treatment of headache disorders . 
conspectus . sex and pregnancy current concepts . 
splenectomy and implantation of splenic tissue . 
industrial nail gun injuries . 
treatable dementias in the elderly . 
diabetes mellitus : gastrointestinal complications . 
potential for cure in ovarian cancer . there has been steady progress in improving the survival stage by stage for women with ovarian carcinoma . part of this is the " will rogers " phenomenon : the improvement in results among two groups by movement of a subset of patients from one stage to the other stage . for those stage i patients at low risk ( stage i-a1 , i-b1 , well or moderately differentiated ) for recurrence , the exceeding of 90 % survival rates in these carefully staged patients without postoperative radiation or chemotherapy represents significant progress in comparison to results a decade ago . moreover , those patients thought to be stage i or ii but found to have upper abdominal metastasis by careful surgical staging will now receive the best therapy for stage iii ovarian cancer . the combination of the small volume of upper abdominal tumor discovered in these latter patients and the effects of receiving the best therapy for stage iii disease should result in improved survival for this subset of patients . the impact of cisplatin-based chemotherapy has already impacted positively on improved survival for women with stage iii and iv ovarian carcinoma . with more surgeons now trained in the techniques of debulking surgery in advanced ovarian carcinoma , the recent survival rates for patients receiving cisplatin-based chemotherapy should improve significantly in the next decade . 
medical management of prostatic hyperplasia . 
acute urinary retention . 
polycystic ovary syndrome . 
acute pyelonephritis in pregnancy . acute pyelonephritis is one of the most common serious medical complications of pregnancy and may result in significant maternal morbidity . e . coli and klebsiella are the two most common causative organisms . pregnant women with acute pyelonephritis should be hospitalized and treated with parenteral antibiotics . clinical response is usually dramatic , with the majority of patients being asymptomatic within 48 to 72 hours of therapy . recurrent infection is common , and these women must be followed closely with frequent surveillance cultures . detection and eradication of bacteriuria at the initial prenatal visit is important in preventing this complication . 
predisposing factors and prevention of renal calculi . over the last few years there have been marked advances in both the surgical and medical treatment of urinary stone disease . at present , we have expectations of decreasing the incidence of stone recurrence in a vast majority of patients with medical therapy alone . while there are still many patients who will continue to develop new stones , decreasing their rate of new stone formation will lessen the need for surgical intervention . 
causes , diagnosis , and treatment of pelvic inflammatory disease . 
diagnosis and management of urinary incontinence . 
syphilis : review and update . 
percutaneous lithotripsy . 
evaluation of prognostic indices based on hemodynamic and oxygen transport variables in shock patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome . we tested prospectively 30 hypotensive shock patients using a continuous , on-line , real-time hemodynamic and oxygen transport monitoring system with a previously described predictive index , modified for the clinical conditions in our icu . continuous monitoring and display of cardiac output and 20 or more derived variables , together with the predictive index , were a feasible and useful approach . unlike previously documented series of elective postoperative general surgical patients , our series consisted of patients with multiple trauma , myocardial infarction , sepsis , and other medical emergencies as well as postoperative cardiac and general surgical patients , all of whom had respiratory failure ( acute respiratory distress syndrome ) . in addition to these differences , our patients were invariably admitted to the icu after the nadir of their hypotensive crisis . to compare the continuous recorded values with previous studies that used intermittent measurements , three comparable time intervals were selected ; data at these time intervals and the predictions derived from them were in satisfactory agreement with prior studies . moreover , therapeutic goals based on the median values of survivors of the present series were similar , but not identical , to prior series despite differences in the clinical mix and the later postresuscitation icu admissions of our series . 
treatment of multifocal atrial tachycardia with metoprolol . we used metoprolol orally or iv in 25 patients with multifocal atrial tachycardia that was complicating severe cardiopulmonary illness , and we observed its effect on heart rate and rhythm , bp , and arterial blood gases . all patients showed a dramatic slowing of heart rate , averaging 54.0 + / - 4.0 beat / min ( p less than .001 ) , with only small and transient fall in bp . seventeen ( 68 % ) patients experienced conversion to sinus rhythm , 11 immediately , and six more within 3 h . time to response averaged 5.1 h with the oral form but was less than 10 min when the drug was given iv . the mean oral dose required was 32.5 mg , and the mean iv dose was 6.5 mg . no patient experienced clinically apparent hemodynamic or respiratory deterioration as a result of metoprolol administration . while arterial ph and paco2 were unaltered by metoprolol , mean pao2 increased by 12.2 + / - 5.8 torr ( p less than .05 ) , the increase being greatest in patients with more severe gas-exchange derangement . we conclude that metoprolol is effective in the management of multifocal atrial tachycardia . 
oxygen delivery and consumption in patients with hyperdynamic septic shock . we analyzed the relationship of increases in oxygen delivery to changes in oxygen consumption in ten patients with hyperdynamic septic shock . increases in oxygen delivery from 413 + / - 14 ( sem ) to 535 + / - 19 ml / min x m2 ( p less than .01 ) were associated with increases in oxygen consumption from 136 + / - 10 to 161 + / - 5 ml / min x m2 ( p less than .05 ) . arterial lactate decreased from 4.6 + / - 1.6 to 2.1 + / - 0.3 mmol / l ( p less than .05 ) . these observations suggest that oxygen utilization is perfusion-limited in hyperdynamic septic shock . 
risk and detection of pulmonary artery catheter-related infection in septic surgical patients . specimen cultures were evaluated in 49 catheterized patients who had a known focus of infection ( primarily intra-abdominal peritonitis ) . bacteria were recovered from 2 % of flush solutions , 14 % of transducer domes , 18 % of diaphragms , and 24 % of cardiac output fluids ; however , these bacteria were not found in cultures of the pulmonary artery ( pa ) catheter segments . the rates of positive pa catheter-aspirate cultures were 30.6 % on day 1 , 20.4 % on day 2 , and 32.7 % on day 3 ( not statistically different ) . pa catheter-aspirate cultures had a sensitivity of 5.7 % and a positive predictive value of 30 % for catheter-related infection , and 15 % sensitivity and 40 % positive predictive value for peripheral bacteremia . while 95 % ( 55 of 58 ) of the catheter-aspirate cultures were false-positives , only 0.5 % ( 3 of 588 ) were true-positives . peripheral blood cultures were positive in 10 % of the patients , but the catheter segments were sterile or grew different organisms . arterial line cultures had zero sensitivity and predictive value to detect catheter-related infection , and 15 % sensitivity and 40 % predictive value to detect peripheral bacteremia . thus , pa catheter-aspirate cultures , routine peripheral blood cultures , and arterial cultures cannot be recommended to detect pa catheter-related infection . catheter-related infection confirmed by catheter-segment cultures was 10.2 % when the pa catheters were removed after 73 + / - 6.5 ( sd ) h . bacteria from catheter-segment cultures corresponded to those from the primary infection site . 
cardiopulmonary resuscitation in hospitalized patients : continuing problems of decision-making . disturbingly low survival rates after cpr prompted us to carry out a series of studies . of 272 patients receiving cpr at our 600-bed community hospital in 1984 , 102 ( 37.5 % ) patients survived initial resuscitation and 30 ( 11 % ) survived their hospitalization . of the 102 initial survivors , only 15 patients had received full cpr including cardiac compression and / or defibrillation , endotracheal intubation , and cardiotonic drugs . these data were compared with those for 129 patients admitted to our critical care units in 1982 and 1983 in whom cpr was withheld . these patients had been designated " no cpr " primarily because of their poor response to therapy . there was an 11 % survival rate for patients who had received cpr compared to a 16 % survival rate for the " no cpr " group . these data suggest that criteria for administering cpr to hospitalized patients should be improved . 
ultralow doses of vasopressin in the management of diabetes insipidus . management of postoperative diabetes insipidus ( di ) frequently requires intermittent treatment with multiple subcutaneous injections of pituitrin or vasopressin , in doses averaging 20 iu / 24 h . use of a syringe pump for a continuous infusion of ultralow doses of pituitrin produced uniform , constant , and sustained reduction of urinary output , thus facilitating regular fluid replacement . twelve patients with postoperative di received iv pituitrin at a dose of 1.6 + / - 0.26 miu / kg x h ( 1 to 2 iu / 24 h ) . the antidiuretic effect began at the third hour of treatment , peaked by the sixth hour ( diuresis of 37 ml / h , specific gravity of 1.018 + / - 0.002 ) , and was sustained throughout infusion . polyuria recurred 3 h after the infusion was discontinued ; this rapid reversibility is highly advantageous when excessive fluid intake causes overhydration . pressor effects were not observed during the treatment period . 
broviac catheterization in low birth weight infants : incidence and treatment of associated complications . fifty-two broviac catheters were inserted in 40 preterm and eight term infants for 1733 days of catheter use . thirty-six ( 69 % ) catheters were associated with complications of infection and / or thrombosis , a complication rate of 1 / 48 catheter days . the patients who developed complications were of a significantly lower gestational age and had a lower mean birth weight when compared with those who developed no complications . the incidence of catheter-related sepsis was 69 % in the very low birth weight infants and only 20 % in the infants with birth weights over 1500 g . eighteen of the 26 catheter-associated infections were treated with antibiotics without catheter removal . successful resolution of the infections with retention of the catheter occurred in 14 of the 18 episodes . infections with staphylococcus aureus constituted three of four treatment failures . urokinase infusion was successful in causing thrombolysis in eight of the nine cases . broviac catheters in neonates , and especially in preterm infants under 1500 g , are associated with a high incidence of complications . our experience indicates that some complications can be selectively managed without sacrificing the venous access . 
neonatal hygroscopic condenser humidifier . a hygroscopic condenser humidifier was developed for neonates on mechanical ventilation and was evaluated by laboratory tests and clinically . humidification provided by the unit was measured in the 10- to 50-ml tidal-volume range at ambient temperatures of 24 degrees c and 38 degrees c . the effect of a leaking patient connection on device performance was investigated . leakage rates were measured routinely in a neonatal icu and surgery to determine the clinical significance . in the entire tidal volume and temperature range , the unit provided an inspiratory water content in excess of 30 g / m3 when the leak fraction ( volume leaked / volume delivered at y-piece ) was less than 15 % . this was found in three out of four cases . in about one out of ten cases , the leak exceeded 30 % , which invariably led to corrective action , such as repositioning or changing the endotracheal tube . however , even at a 30 % leak , a water content of about 26 g / m3 was still available for humidifying the inspired gas , which corresponds to normal physiologic conditions found in the trachea for nasal breathing of room air . 
advanced cardiac life support refresher course using standardized objective-based mega code testing . the american heart association ( aha ) recommends that those whose daily work requires knowledge and skills in advanced cardiac life support ( acls ) not only be trained in acls , but also be given a refresher training at least every 2 yr . however , ama offers no recommended course for retraining ; no systematic studies of retraining have been conducted on which to base these recommendations . in this paper we review and present our recommendation for a standardized approach to refresher training . using the goals and objectives of the acls training program as evaluation criteria , we tested with the mega code a sample population who had previously been trained in acls . the results revealed deficiencies in acls knowledge and skills in the areas of assessment , defibrillation , drug therapy , and determining the cause of an abnormal blood gas value . we combined this information with our knowledge of other deficiencies identified during actual resuscitation attempts and other basic life-support and acls teaching experiences . we then designed a refresher course which was consistent with the overall goals and objectives of the acls training program , but which placed emphasis on the deficiencies identified in the pretesting . we taught our newly designed refresher course in three sessions , which included basic life support , endotracheal intubation , arrhythmia recognition and therapeutic modalities , defibrillation , and mega code practice . in a fourth session , using mega code testing , we evaluated knowledge and skill learning immediately after training . we similarly tested retention 2 to 4 months later . performance immediately after refresher training showed improvement in all areas where performance had been weak . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
increased airway resistance complicating respiratory distress syndrome . 
oliguria from high intra-abdominal pressure secondary to ovarian mass . oliguria in association with elevated intra-abdominal pressure developed in a patient with an ovarian mass . operative decompression of the abdomen reversed the oliguric state . clinically , laparotomy may be indicated in the presence of decreasing urinary output and elevated intra-abdominal pressure . 
extracorporeal lung assist without endotracheal intubation and mechanical pulmonary ventilation [ letter ] 
rabies [ letter ] 
acute epiglottitis in children [ letter ] 
continuous monitoring of mixed venous blood oxygen saturation [ letter ] 
effect of injectate volume on local hematoma formation during low-dose heparin therapy [ letter ] 
reflex bradycardia during dopamine therapy for septic shock [ letter ] 
alveolar-arterial oxygen tension difference : an inaccurate estimate of pulmonary function with variable oxygen supplementation [ letter ] 
the current role of ultraradical surgery in the treatment of pelvic cancer . based on the results of experience accumulated in the past 30 years , exenterative pelvic surgery should be a part of the armamentarium of specially prepared oncologic surgeons . it is most frequently indicated for radiation failures in the treatment of carcinoma of the cervix , although it may be justified as primary treatment of selected cases of stage iv lesions without evidence of dissemination outside the pelvis . it is also justified for postirradiation radionecrosis causing sloughing and fistula , provided adequate relief cannot be offered by simple urinary and fecal diversion . for carcinoma of the rectum and pelvic colon , exenteration has a role in the advanced lesions that appear not to have become disseminated outside the pelvis but that involve contiguous viscera . reoperation for recurrent carcinoma of the rectum is rarely successful , and this dreaded complication is best avoided by a well-planned and adequate standard first operation , or by the early recognition that a more extended operation is necessary . it is to be hoped that adjuvant radiation therapy , either preoperative or postoperative , or both , may be proved effective in preventing recurrence , especially for lesions below the peritoneal reflection , which is the most frequent site of recurrent disease . finally , ultraradical pelvic surgery has reached its anatomical and pathologic limit . it only remains for the mortality and survival results to be further improved by continued refinements in the technicalities of the operation and in the judgment and selection of patients for it . multimodal adjunctive therapy has an emerging role , as does selection of patients for functional preservation and reconstruction . the procedures should continue to be done in institutions where special studies are being conducted and where trained and experienced personnel are available with the necessary ancillary services . 
continuing education for pulmonary physicians [ editorial ] 
calcium antagonists : new therapy for congestive heart failure ? [ editorial ] 
life-threatening theophylline toxicity is not predictable by serum levels . we questioned whether there was any way to predict which patients with high serum theophylline levels would develop life-threatening toxicity and thereby determine which patients might benefit from prophylactic therapeutic measures , such as hemoperfusion or hemodialysis . we reviewed the records of 54 consecutive patients seen over a five-year period in whom the serum theophylline level was 39 micrograms / ml or higher ( range 39-78 micrograms / ml , mean theophylline level 49.5 + / - 9.6 micrograms / ml ) . toxicity sought included cardiovascular--major arrhythmias ( asystole , ventricular tachycardia , ventricular fibrillation ) and minor arrhythmias , ( central nervous system--major [ seizures ] , minor [ confusion , agitation ] ) ; and gastrointestinal ( nausea , vomiting and diarrhea ) . in our sample of patients with extremely high theophylline levels , the incidence of life-threatening complications was low , and the subgroup of patients with high serum theophylline levels who developed life-threatening toxicity could not be easily identified . we conclude that major interventional procedures such as hemoperfusion or hemodialysis should not be used prophylactically in this population of patients of middle age to elderly men with high theophylline levels . we recommend a more conservative approach of using oral activated charcoal therapy in all patients with high serum theophylline levels , and reserving hemoperfusion or hemodialysis for those patients who develop seizures or major arrhythmias . 
comparison of algorithms for determining the end-point of the forced vital capacity maneuver . the criteria of the american thoracic society ( ats ) for determining the end-point of the forced vital capacity ( fvc ) maneuver were compared with an algorithm employed by a computer system ( hewlett-packard ) , which yields a later end-point . the 150 subjects tested were divided into five groups of 30 on the basis of the following spirometric diagnoses : normal ; small airways ' obstruction ( sao ) ; mild airways ' obstruction ( mao ) ; severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) ; or restrictive disease . the subjects performed a minimum of three maneuvers according to ats standards , and the flow-volume curves with the greatest sum of fvc and forced expiratory volume in one second ( fev ) were chosen for analysis by the two algorithms . hewlett-packard ( hp ) values for fvc and fvc time were always higher than the corresponding ats values , and the hp values for flows were always lower than the corresponding ats values . the higher differences were observed in the sao group . in the group with severe copd , high fvc differences and low flow differences were observed ; on the contrary , in the restrictive group , low fvc differences and high flow differences were present . these results , in addition to the different location of the fvc end point , may be explained by the different morphology of the flow-volume curves . in conclusion , the ats algorithm caused a systematic underevaluation of fvc and a systematic overevaluation of flows , which cause practical consequences only in the sao group . in fact , 28 percent ( 17 / 60 ) of the subjects with sao characteristics were considered " normal " using ats criteria for the end-point . 
tuberculous pleural effusions . while a number of recent reports have documented the changing clinical and radiographic spectrum of parenchymal tuberculosis , relatively little attention has been paid to changes in the patterns of pleural tuberculosis . we therefore reviewed the clinical , laboratory , and radiographic characteristics of 26 adult patients with tuberculous pleural effusions . we found that pleural tuberculosis has become a disease of older adults ( median age , 56 years ) and that 19 percent ( 5 / 26 ) of the cases were due to postprimary ( reactivation ) disease . this shift in age led to problems in diagnosis , since many of these older patients had underlying or coexisting disease that could have caused a pleural effusion . both specimens of pleural fluid and pleural biopsy were useful in establishing the diagnosis . examination of sputum was less helpful . all patients who were not anergic had positive cutaneous reactions to first-strength purified protein derivative of tuberculin . lymphocytosis of the pleural fluid was not a uniform finding ; only 62 percent of our patients had greater than 50 percent lymphocytes on their initial examinations of pleural fluid , and four patients had greater than 90 percent polymorphonuclear cells . all of the effusions were exudates , and four had glucose levels in the pleural fluid that were less than 30 mg / dl . pleural tuberculosis is an important diagnostic consideration in adult or elderly patients with exudative pleural effusions . 
lung and blood lymphocyte subsets in asbestosis and in mixed dust pneumoconiosis . to study the local distribution of lymphocyte subsets in inorganic dust diseases , bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) was performed in seven patients with asbestosis , and in 13 patients with mixed dust pneumoconiosis ( anthracosidero-silicosis ) . lymphocyte subsets in bal and blood were determined by the monoclonal antibodies okt3 ( pan t ) , okt4 ( helper / inducer ) , okt8 ( suppressor / cytotoxic ) , b1 ( b-cells ) , okia ( hla-dr antigens ) , and leu-7 ( natural killer ) . the bal lymphocytes were moderately elevated to 15 + / - 8 percent ( mean + / - sd ) in mixed dust pneumoconiosis , and even more markedly increased to 28 + / - 21 percent in asbestosis . the okt4 / okt8 ratio in bal was significantly increased to 4.5 + / - 2.1 in asbestosis , and significantly reduced to 0.9 + / - 0.8 in mixed dust pneumoconiosis . in blood , the ratio of t-cell subsets remained unchanged , though total lymphocytes were decreased in asbestosis . these results suggest altered cellular immune processes in the lungs of patients with pneumoconiosis and may indicate different immunoregulatory changes depending on the nature of the inhaled dust . 
fibrocystic lung disease . an unusual cause . 
arrhythmia diagnosis by electrogram telemetry . involvement of dual chamber pacemaker . 
the solitary pulmonary nodule . assessment , diagnosis , and management . we have presented a brief overview of an approach that has been very successful in our hands in the patient with an spn . even though the patient who has undergone a thoracotomy is full of gratitude to his physician when told that the resected lesion was benign and does not question the need for the thoracotomy , we have met equally happy and gratified patients when they were told that their lesion is benign be it after ct densitometry or needle biopsy . when properly performed , these techniques demand care and attention to detail much like the surgeon performing a delicate procedure . without proper care , these procedures can in fact reflect negatively on the physician performing them and fall in disrepute . ct densitometry and transthoracic needle aspiration biopsy allow effective management of the patient with an spn with prompt documentation of both malignant or benign lesions . with the proper application of these techniques , the majority of patients with benign disease will not need a thoracotomy for diagnosis with resultant benefits to the patient as well as to third-party payers . 
pitfalls of chest pain . pseudoxanthoma elasticum . 
presternal soft tissue calcifications following mediastinal radiotherapy for hodgkin 's disease . a patient is described in whom dense calcifications developed in the presternal soft tissues of the chest four years after mediastinal radiotherapy . this is believed to represent dystrophic calcification in previously normal but incidentally radiated tissues following standard dose radiotherapy to the mediastinum for stage iia hodgkin 's disease . 
right heart pseudotumor simulated by ascitic pseudocyst . an unusual complication of peritoneovenous shunting . peritoneovenous shunting ( pvs ) for intractable ascites has an extensive clinical experience , with several well-described complications . we recently noted an unusual complication of pvs with a denver shunt . a 37-year-old woman who had placement of a shunt for chylous ascites 18 months prior to presentation demonstrated on a large , mobile mass filling the right atrium which , during atrial systole , partially prolapsed into the right ventricle . at cardiac surgery , a 4 x 10 cm mass with attachment to the tip of the shunt was found . intracardiac ascitic pseudocyst is a potentially lethal complication of pvs with the denver shunt which should be considered with a high index of suspicion and evaluated with echocardiography . 
respiratory muscle dysfunction secondary to chronic tracheostomy tube placement . in patients requiring periodic mechanical ventilation , a deflated , fenestrated tracheostomy tube may impair respiratory muscle performance during spontaneous breathing . we describe a patient with severe chronic airflow obstruction ( cao ) whose respiratory muscle performance and exercise duration improved after tracheostomy tube removal . duty cycle , pdi / pdi max , and the tension time index were all lower during exercise after tracheostomy tube removal . we conclude that a deflated and fenestrated tracheostomy tube significantly increases airways resistance and can further limit ventilatory muscle performance in patients with airflow obstruction . patients requiring intermittent ventilatory support may benefit from permanent tracheostomy fistulas that allow for intermittent self cannulation . this would avoid loading of the respiratory muscles when breathing spontaneously . 
improved surgical approach to cardiac tumors with intraoperative two-dimensional echocardiography . intraoperative two-dimensional echocardiography allows visualization of cardiac anatomy and function not possible by other techniques . although preoperative evaluation by noninvasive methods is usually adequate for diagnosis of cardiac tumors , two-dimensional echocardiography can be beneficial intraoperatively . intraoperative echocardiography provides an accurate evaluation of cardiac anatomy , extent of tumor invasion , valvular function and the possible presence of intracardiac communications . importantly , following tumor resection and a complex operative reconstructive procedure , the echocardiogram can confirm complete intracardiac tumor excision , evaluate post-repair ventricular function , and exclude an intracardiac communication or valvular insufficiency . 
unpredictable cause of early recurrence of angina pectoris after successful double coronary angioplasty . early recurrence of symptoms after successful coronary angioplasty is usually due to restenosis of the angioplasty site . multilesion progression of atherosclerosis in the presence of patent prior dilated segments has not , to our knowledge , been reported as a cause of early recurrent angina after successful double coronary angioplasty . as both new lesions were also successfully dilated , this case demonstrates that multivessel coronary angioplasty is a repeatedly effective and patient-friendly procedure to treat symptomatic coronary atherosclerosis with rapid and unpredictable rate of progression . 
antigens of powdered pearl-oyster shell causing hypersensitivity pneumonitis . we describe the identification and characterization of antigens of the pearl-oyster shell which caused hypersensitivity pneumonitis in a 42-year-old worker . he was occupationally exposed to the dust of this shell in the manufacture of different ornaments . in addition to a typical history , the diagnosis was confirmed through a workplace-related exposure test and high titres of antigen-specific igg antibodies . by means of the immunoblot technique , several relevant antigens could be detected in the shell of the pearl-oyster . control sera also contained immunoglobulins that bound to some electrophoretically separated bands ; these could represent antibodies that react with lectin-like components in the shell in a nonimmunologic manner . 
aspiration of a nasotracheal tube . a complication of nasotracheal intubation and mechanism for retrieval . nasotracheal tube aspiration should be recognized as one of the complications of tracheal intubation . we describe a patient identifying such an event and provide an alternative technique for tube retrieval . 
demand oxygen delivery during exercise . nine hypoxemic patients with cold , whose hypoxemia is aggravated by minimal exercise , volunteered for this study . each subject underwent two treadmill exercise trials at two oxygen delivery settings , each on the dods and sf delivery systems for a total of four exercise trials . we measured sao2 via ear oximetry and recorded oxygen usage per minute . we compared the oxygen usage required for the two techniques to achieve an sao2 of 90 percent . the results indicate that the mean oxygen requirement using the dods to achieve an sao2 of 90 percent was 211.4 ml / min as compared to sf delivery which required 1 , 610.9 ml / min . this implies an oxygen savings advantage of the dods over sf of 7 : 1. the fact that the dods oxygen savings extends to exercise conditions lends support to its use in portable oxygen therapy . widespread use of this and other oxygen savings techniques could result in significant cost savings while maintaining the desired benefits of supplemental oxygen administration . 
the be-happy attitudes [ letter ] 
spontaneous bilateral pneumothorax due to metastatic cervical carcinoma [ letter ] 
lung scintigraphy [ letter ] 
using pressure support in a rational way [ letter ] 
pleural effusion and diaphragmatic dysfunctions [ letter ] 
bronchial reactivity increases soon after the immediate response in dual-responding asthmatic subjects . to determine whether bronchial reactivity is augmented soon after an allergen-induced immediate asthmatic response , we compared reactivity to histamine before and immediately upon resolution of the immediate asthmatic response in seven subjects with mild asthma who were known to develop dual asthmatic responses after inhalation of kentucky bluegrass allergen . using a body plethysmograph and quiet breathing technique , specific airway resistance ( sraw ) and reactivity to aerosol histamine were assessed on two days prior to allergenic challenge . the dose of histamine that doubled sraw ( pc200his ) was determined by interpolation from histamine dose-response curves . on the day of allergenic challenge , each subject inhaled a concentration that was sufficient to induce a dual asthmatic response . upon resolution of the immediate asthmatic response ( 45 to 105 minutes ) after allergen , the pc200his in all cases had decreased more than 50 percent of its original value ( pc200his for the group was 0.29 + / - 1.42 mg / ml [ mean + / - se ] , compared to 0.84 + / - 1.23 mg / ml initially ) . seven or more days after the allergen , each subject had a pc200his comparable to original values . our data indicate that airway reactivity in dual-responding asthmatic subjects markedly increases soon after the immediate asthmatic response and much before the late asthmatic response manifests clinically . whether this early increase in bronchial reactivity is a putative requirement for , or shares common characteristics with the late asthmatic response requires further study . 
diminished natural killer-cell activity of interstitial pulmonary cell populations from patients with carcinoma of the lung . natural killer-cell activity of fresh interstitial pulmonary cell populations from patients with squamous cell and adenocarcinoma of the lung and carcinoma metastatic to the lung was assessed and compared to that of apparently normal lung . no increase in the percentage of lymphoid cell populations was noted in the interstitium of lung contiguous with tumor , and the cytotoxic capacity of the cells present was depressed as compared to that of normal lung . natural killer-cell function appears to be down regulated in lung cancer and may be amenable to therapies which activate such cytotoxicity in vivo . 
the effect of sleep loss on breathing in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . we have previously shown that one night of sleep deprivation results in significant deterioration of spirometric performance and ventilatory responsiveness to inhaled carbon dioxide in normal people . since even a small decrease in pulmonary function may be clinically important in patients with chronic limitation of airflow , we undertook the present study to assess the effects of sleep loss on breathing in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) . criteria for inclusion in this study were a ratio of the forced expiratory volume in one second over the forced vital capacity ( fev1 / fvc ) of less than 60 percent , no hospital admission for pulmonary disease within two weeks of testing , stable ( less than 30 percent variation ) in tests of pulmonary function on two occasions within three months of testing , and no history of asthma . we studied 15 men ( mean age , 57 + / - 3 years ) on two consecutive mornings . patients were studied with and without sleep deprivation in a randomized fashion . patients were hospitalized for the study so that sleep deprivation , medications , smoking , and diet could be monitored and enforced . we found small but statistically significant falls in fev1 ( 1.06 + / - 0.11 to 1.00 + / - 0.09 l ; p less than 0.05 ) and in fvc ( 2.56 + / - 0.20 to 2.43 + / - 0.17 l ; p less than 0.05 ) following sleep deprivation . changes of similar magnitude which were not statistically significant occurred in maximal voluntary ventilation ( mvv ) and response to carbon dioxide . the arterial oxygen ( pao2 ) and carbon dioxide ( paco2 ) tensions were not affected . maximal expiratory pressure at the mouth increased slightly , but there was a fall in maximal inspiratory pressure ( mip ) at the mouth . we conclude that sleep loss is associated with small but significant falls in fev1 and fvc , as well as changes of similar magnitude in mvv , minute ventilation , and mip in patients with severe copd . although the sleep loss which frequently accompanies exacerbations of copd may be a slight additional stress of pulmonary reserve , a single night 's loss of sleep in the patient with stable chronic airflow obstruction does not have major clinical consequences . 
medical expert systems . who needs them ? [ editorial ] 
secundum atrial septal defect with severe pulmonary hypertension . open lung biopsy diagnosis of operative indication . in 14 of 15 patients ranging in age from 1 to 62 years ( mean of 34 ) with secundum atrial septal defect ( asd ) and pulmonary hypertension over 60 mm hg peak pressure , operative indication was determined by morphometric diagnosis of open biopsy of lung specimens . in one patient , open lung biopsy was also performed during corrective surgery . pulmonary arterial changes in the 15 patients were grouped into four classifications as follow : ( 1 ) plexogenic pulmonary arteriopathy ( six patients ) ; ( 2 ) thromboembolism in small pulmonary arteries ( three patients ) ; ( 3 ) " musculoelastosis , " intimal proliferation of longitudinal smooth muscle bundles and elastic fibers ( three patients ) ; and ( 4 ) combinations of ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) or ( 1 ) , ( 3 ) ( three patients ) . we conclude concerning the operative indication that group 2 patients are operable in all cases and group 1 patients with yamaki 's index of pulmonary vascular disease of 2.2 or less ; group 3 patients with the absence of complete occlusion of the small pulmonary arterial lumen are operable , and patients with clear evidence of severe plexogenic pulmonary arteriopathy in group 4 are not operable . comparative analysis of pulmonary pathology and hemodynamic performance revealed that open lung biopsy should be performed to determine operative candidacy in cases with a pulmonary vascular resistance greater than 8 unit x m2 , which is considered to represent the borderline of operability . 
pulmonary manifestations of kaposi 's sarcoma . pulmonary kaposi 's sarcoma is an unusual pre-mortem diagnosis in aids patients . during a four-year period , 318 patients with aids-associated kaposi 's sarcoma presented to new york university medical center ; 19 patients were found to have pulmonary involvement . all 19 patients were homosexual men ; 18 of these patients presented with cutaneous and / or visceral kaposi 's sarcoma . seventy-nine percent of patients had previous or concurrent pulmonary opportunistic infections . clinical presentation of pulmonary kaposi 's sarcoma was indistinguishable from opportunistic pneumonia with respect to symptoms , physical examination results , and laboratory findings . chest roentgenograms revealed a typical nodular pattern in only five patients . in contrast to aids-associated opportunistic pneumonia , the yield from fiberoptic bronchoscopy ( 24 percent ) and open lung biopsy ( 56 percent ) was low . pathologically , kaposi 's sarcoma of the lung is less cellular than the cutaneous lesion . it is focal and scattered throughout the pulmonary interstitium , which may explain the difficulty in pre-mortem diagnosis . 
relationship of the ventilatory response to cotton bract extract and the cells and proteins of the lung . many healthy subjects who have had no exposure to cotton textile dusts will experience significant reductions in expired flow rate following an inhalational challenge with an aqueous extract of cotton bracts ( cbe ) . differences noted among individuals in the magnitude of the bronchial response to a standardized preparation of cbe suggest variable airway reactivity . the mechanism of this response and the reasons for its variability among these naive subjects are unknown . we have studied this problem by performing bronchoalveolar lavage on 13 volunteer subjects with no history of textile dust exposure . two to three months later , a bronchial provocation with aqueous cbe was performed by an investigator blinded to the lavage results . subjects with greater than 20 percent drop in flow rate at 40 percent of vital capacity during a partial forced expiration ( mef 40 percent [ p ] ) following cbe had a reduction in total recoverable alveolar macrophages , with a resultant increase in the percentage of recoverable lymphocytes . the magnitude of response ( mef 40 percent [ p ] ) correlated directly with the measured lymphocyte percentage ( r = 0.69 p less than 0.01 ) and inversely with the total numbers of recovered cells . 
prolonged effect of inhaled glycopyrrolate in asthma . glycopyrrolate , a quaternary ammonium anticholinergic compound is a potentially useful bronchodilator . to determine the efficacy , optimal dose , and duration of action of inhaled glycopyrrolate , we gave the drug to 11 asthmatic patients . each subject received placebo or glycopyrrolate ( 100 , 200 , 600 , or 1 , 200 micrograms ) by inhalation in a double-blind , randomized , crossover design . measurements included fev1 , fvc , heart rate , and blood pressure before administration of the drug and periodically for 12 hours . for eight hours following all doses of glycopyrrolate , both fev1 and fvc ( both as percent of predicted ) were significantly greater for drug than for placebo . glycopyrrolate may be a useful long-acting drug for the treatment of asthma . 
angiotensin converting enzyme in bronchoalveolar lavage in ards . angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) is present in the endothelial cells of the normal lung where it converts angiotensin i to angiotensin ii and inactivates bradykinin . it has been suggested that during endothelial injury ace is sloughed into the blood , and that if the alveolar capillary membrane is injured , also into the alveolar lining fluid . seven patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) , were compared to 11 normal control subjects , nine patients with sarcoidosis , and six with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis . total , differential cell counts and ace determinations were performed on bronchoalveolar lavage fluid in the ards group . ace was detectable in the bal of all but one ards patient . it was concluded that bal ace is elevated in some ards patients , especially those with infectious causes of lung injury . increased ace may reflect endothelial damage or local increase in ace production in response to sepsis . 
verapamil in multifocal atrial tachycardia . hemodynamic and respiratory changes . the hemodynamic and gas exchange alterations resulting from treatment of multifocal atrial tachycardia ( mat ) with intravenous verapamil were monitored in 13 critically ill patients . administration of verapamil ( mean dose 12.9 + / - 1.0 mg ) produced immediate if usually transient reduction in heart rate . stroke volume index rose , but no significant changes in cardiac index , blood pressure , or pulmonary artery or capillary wedge pressures were demonstrated . verapamil appeared to increase pulmonary venous admixture . oxygen transport , however , did not decrease significantly . verapamil is generally beneficial in the treatment of mat , but its utility may be limited in many patients by its tendency to aggravate pre-existing arterial hypoxemia . 
aortic dissection presenting as pericarditis . in five patients with aortic dissection , signs and / or symptoms of pericarditis were part of the early manifestations of the aortic disease . signs of inflammatory pericarditis were noted clinically in four patients and were found at autopsy in one . in the three nonoperated patients who died of aortic rupture leading to fatal hemopericardium , symptoms of pericarditis preceded fatal rupture of the aorta by four to five days . a fourth patient died after surgical repair of aortic dissection 35 days after the onset of pericarditis . in the fifth patient , manifestations of chronic constrictive pericardial disease occurred over a period of seven months after which old aortic dissection was first identified . in each case , the internal tear of classic aortic dissection was located in the ascending aorta . microscopic evidence of cystic medial necrosis of the aorta was present in each case . in each of two cases , there was a congenital bicuspid aortic valve . the phenomenon observed represents acute aortic dissection in which slow penetration of blood into the pericardial space caused inflammatory pericarditis . the interval between the onset of pericarditis and rupture of the aorta may allow sufficient time for appropriate diagnosis and potentially lifesaving treatment of the aortic disease . 
body position and ventilation-perfusion relationships in unilateral pulmonary disease . the effect of positional change ( right vs left lateral decubitus ) on the distribution of ventilation and perfusion ratios was determined in four patients with respiratory failure and chest roentgenographic findings of unilateral pulmonary disease . in these patients with a unilateral interstitial pattern , improvement in oxygenation which occurred when the " good " side was dependent ( down ) was associated with changes in the patterns of ventilation-perfusion distribution ; two patients showed a predominant decrease in right-to-left intrapulmonary shunt , and two showed an improvement in ventilation-perfusion equality . therefore , when unilateral interstitial pulmonary disease was present , positional change resulted in changes in right-to-left intrapulmonary shunt or low ventilation-perfusion ratios or both . variability between patients can be explained by the nonhomogeneity of pulmonary disease in patients with respiratory failure . 
computed chest tomography in the evaluation of hemoptysis . impact on diagnosis and treatment . the results of computed chest tomograms ( ct ) and chest roentgenograms ( cr ) were compared in 32 patients who presented with hemoptysis . the ct demonstrated roentgenographic abnormalities more often than cr ( p less than 0.01 ) , providing new diagnostic information in 15 patients ( 46.9 percent ) , and clarifying cr abnormalities in five ( 15.6 percent ) others . in addition , ct correctly localized sources of bleeding in 23 ( 88.5 percent ) of the 26 patients in whom a site was identified at bronchoscopy , while cr localization was correct in 17 ( 65.4 percent ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . despite this augmentation of roentgenographic yield , information derived from ct scans influenced the management of only six patients , did not obviate the need for bronchoscopy , and supplemented the combined diagnostic yield of cr and bronchoscopy in only two . outcome was changed in one patient in whom ct had demonstrated an otherwise unrecognized malignant solitary pulmonary nodule . the chest roentgenogram and fiberoptic bronchoscopy provided all the information essential for diagnosis and therapeutic recommendations in 93.7 percent of these patients . although the ct provided additional information in over one half of our patients , its overall impact on clinical management was small and does not support routine use of this imaging procedure in evaluation of hemoptysis . the possible role of chest ct in evaluating carefully selected patients with hemoptysis requires further study . 
site of bronchodilatation with inhaled ipratropium bromide and fenoterol in normal subjects . to assess the effectiveness and site of action of bronchodilatation with an inhaled anticholinergic bronchodilator , ipratropium bromide , and a beta adrenergic agonist , fenoterol , we measured the density dependence of maximal flow and the density dependence of pulmonary resistance using a digital computerized averaging circuit . eight normal subjects were studied on two separate days , before and after the bronchodilators were administered in a double blind manner . both drugs resulted in significant and equivalent bronchodilatation . however , there were no significant changes in the density dependence of maximal flow or pulmonary resistance with either agent . these results in normal subjects , therefore , do not support the hypothesis of a preferential site of action of inhaled anticholinergic agents and beta-adrenergic agents . 
toxic megacolon . an analysis of 70 cases . the clinical features and outcome of 70 patients treated for toxic megacolon between 1970 and 1984 in five university-affiliated hospitals were determined . there were 35 women and 35 men with a mean age of 39 + / - 0.2 years . toxic megacolon occurred at the initial episode of colitis in 43 patients ( 61 percent ) . only five patients had a specific colitis : salmonellosis , two ; ischemic , two ; and pseudomembranous , one . of the 65 remaining patients with nonspecific colitis , six had to be operated on without delay because of peritonitis . in the remaining 59 patients , toxic megacolon was cured with intensive medical management in nine ( 15 percent ) , improved temporarily in 14 ( 24 percent ) , and remained unchanged in 36 ( 61 percent ) . the postoperative mortality rate was 11 percent for all patients ( 6 / 56 ) , 4 percent for patients without perforation ( 2 / 50 ) compared with 27 percent for patients with perforation ( 4 / 15 ) . none of the patients who underwent surgery within five days of medical treatment died . when toxic megacolon was complicated by hemorrhage ( nine patients ) or peritonitis ( eight patients ) , the mortality rate increased to 33 percent and 27 percent , respectively . a one-stage proctocolectomy was performed in 19 patients ( 32 percent ) . of 32 patients in whom the rectum was retained , successful restoration of continuity was possible in only seven ( 22 percent ) within 12 months after surgery . in well-selected patients , a plea is made for rectal preservation to offer an alternative to permanent ileostomy . 
management of anorectal horseshoe abscess and fistula . over a 10-year period 69 patients were treated consecutively for posterior and anterior horseshoe abscesses and fistulas . fifty-nine patients had posterior and ten had anterior abscesses or fistulas . there were 52 patients with acute abscess . treatment consisted of incision and drainage , incision and drainage with primary fistulotomy , incision and drainage with primary fistulotomy and counter-drainage , and incision and drainage with insertion of seton . seventeen patients with chronic fistulas were treated by primary fistulotomy with curettage , or incision and drainage with insertion of seton . patients were followed from three months to ten years with a mean follow-up of three years . no incidences of incontinence were reported in this series . the overall rate of recurrence was 18 percent , and included only patients with posterior abscesses and fistulas . recurrence was related to the failure to maintain prolonged drainage in the midline after primary fistulotomy . the use of seton for delayed fistulotomy appears to promote wound drainage and precludes premature wound closure . more liberal use of the seton in the treatment of horseshoe abscesses and fistulas is advocated . 
changing survival prospects in rectal carcinoma . a series of 1 , 306 patients managed by one surgeon . cancer-specific survival prospects for rectal carcinoma in a series of 1306 patients managed from 1950 to 1979 by one surgeon worsened from 1970 to 1979. the prognosis was worse for all patients treated operatively from 1970 to 1979 compared with 1960 to 1969 ( p less than 0.03 ) . after potentially curative resection , survival was worse from 1970 to 1979 compared with 1950 to 1959 ( p less than 0.02 ) and 1960 to 1969 ( p less than 0.01 ) , respectively ; the corresponding five-year survivals were 72.5 percent , 72.3 percent , and 61.5 percent . the curative resection rate for the three decades was similar ( 66 to 70 percent ) . an increase in the incidence of dukes ' stage c tumors from 23.3 percent to 32.3 percent ( p less than 0.01 ) explains , at least partly , the decreased survival . the worsened survival prospects were not accounted for by changes in referral pattern , tumor site , or in the proportion of sphincter-saving resections performed . the worsening was paradoxically paralleled by earlier symptomatic presentation ( p less than 0.001 ) . analyses of other australian data are required to test the hypothesis that the worsened survival prospects are consequent to altered tumor biologic aggressiveness , possibly related to differences in the causal factors operating over the 30-year study period . 
a role for colonic stasis in the pathogenesis of disease related to clostridium difficile . the records of 133 consecutive patients ( 65 men , 68 women ; age range , 15 months to 88 years ; median , 57 years ) with either a positive clostridium difficile stool culture or toxin assay from 1982 to 1984 were reviewed in order to assess the pattern of this disease in a large hospital and to examine the type of patient at risk . all patients had diarrhea and / or bloody stools ( 121 and 36 , respectively ) . less specific symptoms were common . most patients had been exposed to multiple antibiotics , but of those who had received only one agent , cephalosporins were most common ( 21 / 43 ) . nineteen patients had cancer chemotherapy . c . difficile toxin assay was positive in 106 , culture was positive in 74 , and pseudomembranes were seen in six of the 39 patients who underwent endoscopy . treatment consisted of stopping antibiotic therapy alone ( 86 percent response ) , oral vancomycin ( 88 percent response ) or metronidazole ( 82 percent response ) . the overall mortality rate was 23 percent , due to c . difficile colitis in three of 31 cases . many patients were receiving medications or had other diseases associated with fecal stasis . there is much circumstantial evidence to support a role for fecal stasis in the pathogenesis of c . difficile disease . patients predisposed to colonic stasis who are receiving antibiotics should be considered at risk for this disease , and preventative measures should be taken to decrease stool transit times . 
the effect of luminal ph on large intestinal absorption in ulcerative proctocolitis . the sensitivity of large intestinal absorption to ph and the absorption of short-chain fatty acids were measured in ulcerative proctocolitis by a dialysis bag method . lowering luminal ph from 7 to 5.5 significantly reduced absorption of salt and water in proctocolitis , but not in normal controls . short-chain fatty acid absorption was not affected by inflammation or change in ph when patients with ulcerative proctocolitis were compared with controls . 
parks ' coloanal sleeve anastomosis for treatment of postirradiation rectovaginal fistula . postirradiation rectovaginal fistula is a complex problem in colorectal surgery . the modified parks procedure curettage of rectal mucosa heavily damaged by radiation is introduced . fifteen cases of coloanal sleeve anastomosis for the repair of rectovaginal postirradiation fistula are described . all patients previously were irradiated heavily because of carcinoma of the uterine cervix . three patients had simultaneous repair of vesicovaginal fistula . one postoperative death was observed . of the surviving patients , functional results have been good in 11. in the seven patients with difficult stripping of the rectal mucosa , surgical curettage was performed . the latter procedure is suggested as the method of choice in relevant cases . 
malignant lymphoma of the rectum . malignant lymphoma involving the rectum is rare . of 61 patients with malignant lymphoma involving the rectum seen at the mayo clinic between 1950 and 1977 , 49 had extensive lymphoma with secondary involvement of the rectum , and 12 had lymphoma confined to the rectum . patients with widespread lymphoma were treated with radiation , chemotherapy , or both . of the 12 patients with lymphoma confined to the rectum , five had surgical excision and seven were treated nonoperatively ; the overall five-year survival was 20 percent . patients with widespread lymphoma had a five-year survival of 15 percent . patients with lymphoma confined to the rectum had a five-year survival of 50 percent , and patients who had surgical excision did better than those treated nonoperatively . 
colonoscopic excision of large and giant colorectal polyps . technical implications and results over eight years . large polyps are sessile or pedunculated lesions that are larger than or equal to 3 cm in size . sixty-six colonoscopic piecemeal excisions of large pedunculated and sessile polyps ( 75 percent of 88 recognized large polyps ) were performed over eight years . the macroscopic feature of the lesions and the result of an extensive snare biopsy were the deciding factors for endoscopic as opposed to surgical removal . only three complications ( 4.5 percent ) were recorded ( two hemorrhages and one colonic wall burn syndrome ) , none of which required surgery . fifty patients with 52 adenomatous lesions had colonoscopic follow-up ( range , 3 to 85 months ) . of 36 sessile adenomas , two cases of residual ( 5.5 percent ) and four of recurrent disease ( 11 percent ) were observed . colonoscopic removal is an alternative to local surgical excision of large benign colorectal polyps , and often can be an alternative method to elective colectomy in elderly and high-risk patients . 
melanosis coli . ultrastructural study of 45 patients . melanosis coli was diagnosed histologically in colon biopsies of 45 patients with prolonged administration of anthraquinone laxatives . colonoscopies performed for increased constipation , abdominal pains , or distention disclosed discoloration of the mucosa in only 14 patients . radiographic studies revealed motility disorders of the colon . in several cases , a circular stenosis occurred at the junction of the colon and the sigmoid , simulating a tumor . electron microscopy showed abnormalities of the absorptive epithelial cells . the lamina propria contained pigment-laden macrophages , plasma cells , and several nerve fibers in different stages of degeneration . the most striking changes of autonomic nerve elements occurred in patients with the most serious motility disorders . 
results of the ripstein operation in the treatment of rectal prolapse and internal rectal procidentia . over 15 years 108 patients with either rectal prolapse or internal rectal procidentia were treated by the ripstein operation . postoperative evaluation was possible in 97 patients ( mean observation time , 6.9 years ) . the mortality rate was 2.8 percent , and surgical complications occurred in an additional 3.7 percent . the recurrence rate was 4.1 percent . preoperative and postoperative functional analysis was possible in 92 patients . the proportion of continent patients increased from 33 percent preoperatively to 72 percent postoperatively . defecation difficulties increased from 27 percent to 43 percent following surgery , and were a major cause of dissatisfaction . 
histopathology of colorectal carcinomas and adenomas in cancer family syndrome . seventy-five colorectal carcinoma patients ( 100 separate cancers ) with verified cancer family syndrome were re-examined for the evaluation of histologic characteristics in carcinomas and adenomatous polyps in this inherited syndrome in a comparison with control patients with colorectal carcinoma but no hereditary background . in the cancer family syndrome group there were significantly more mucinous carcinomas ( 35 to 39 percent vs . 20 percent ; p less than 0.05-0.01 ) , and also more poorly differentiated tumors ( 24 vs . 12 percent ) than in the control group . the differences could not be explained by the site or stage of the tumors or by the age or sex of the patients . additional adenomas occurred quite often both in cancer family syndrome patients ( 19 percent ) and in the controls ( 16 percent ) . in the cancer family syndrome group , however , there were more adenomas with moderate or severe dysplasia ( p less than 0.01 ) and more adenomas with villous features ( p less than 0.05 ) than in the control group . mucinous histologic features in colorectal carcinoma , although not fully specific , might be characteristic of cancer family syndrome , and thus serve as one sign in the identification of the syndrome . the presence of the adenoma-carcinoma sequence in cancer family syndrome also was supported , and the histologic aggressivity of the associated adenomas might signify an accelerated advancement of this phenomenon in cancer family syndrome . 
geographic variation in the incidence of and mortality from inflammatory bowel disease . the geographic and temporal variations in mortality from crohn 's disease and ulcerative colitis were investigated . the validity of mortality data as indicators of morbidity was tested by comparing the death rates and incidences among different countries . death rates from crohn 's disease and ulcerative colitis were high in england , germany , and the scandinavian countries , and low in the mediterranean countries . there was a significant correlation between the incidence and mortality of both diseases among different countries . in addition , the incidence and mortality of crohn 's disease were correlated with those of ulcerative colitis . in countries with a low mortality rate from crohn 's disease , the death rates in men tended to be higher than those in women . in contrast , countries with high death rates from crohn 's disease showed female predominance . no such relationship existed for ulcerative colitis . the overall change in mortality rates during the last 20 to 30 years was characterized by a rise of crohn 's disease and a marked fall of ulcerative colitis . in countries with a high mortality rate from crohn 's disease , the death rates started to fall in recent times . the significant correlations between incidence and mortality show that the death rates from both diseases represent reliable indicators of the morbidity and that the severity of the two diseases is similar in different countries . the marked temporal and geographic variations in both incidence and mortality suggest that environmental factors play an important role in the etiology of both diseases . 
local recurrence following surgical treatment of rectal cancer . comparison of anterior and abdominoperineal resection . three hundred twenty patients with rectal cancer were studied to determine factors that correlate with development of pelvic recurrence . the mean age was 65 years ; anterior resection was performed in 202 ( 63 percent ) and abdominoperineal resection in 118 ( 37 percent ) . fifty-two patients ( 16 percent ) developed pelvic recurrence . the mean duration of follow-up to development of pelvic recurrence was 22 months . depth of tumor invasion , presence of lymph node metastasis , and colloid features were found to correlate with pelvic recurrence . the recurrence rate in patients having anterior resections was the same as that of patients undergoing abdominoperineal resections . patients having anterior resection with distal margins of 1 cm or less had an extremely high recurrence rate ( 36 percent ) . pelvic recurrent did not continue to improve when the distal margins were extended over 2 cm . microscopic lateral tumor extension , which is not removed during operation , appears to be the major determinant of local recurrence in rectal cancer . 
symptomatic recurrences of carcinoma of the rectum and sigmoid . the influence of radiotherapy on the quality of life . one hundred forty-three patients irradiated for locoregional recurrences after curative surgery for cancer of the rectum and sigmoid were studied retrospectively . an analysis was made of the symptomatic response and survival in the total series and in three subgroups treated with different dose levels ( 40 gy or lower , between 40 and 50 gy , 50 gy or higher ) . the symptom-free period was calculated as percent of the overall survival . symptomatic control was obtained in 80.4 percent of the cases , and the crude patient survival rate was 17.5 percent at two years . no significant difference was found in the three subgroups treated with different dose levels . the cumulative time / patient asymptomatic periods in the total series and in the three subgroups were 31.5 , 30.2 , 31.8 , and 31.9 percent respectively , of the survival period . 
lateral internal sphincterotomy in the treatment of hemorrhoids . a clinical and manometric study . using a microtip pressure transducer , anorectal manometry was performed in 119 patients with symptomatic hemorrhoids . in 96 patients ( 80.7 percent ) , a high anal pressure ( greater than 125 cm / h2o ) was found . these patients were treated by lateral internal sphincterotomy , carried out under local anesthesia . in 23 patients ( 19.3 percent ) , a normal or low anal pressure ( less than 125 cm / h2o ) was found . these patients were treated by band ligation or hemorrhoidectomy . the clinical results after lateral internal sphincterotomy ( success rate , 75.3 percent ) suggest that this procedure is a good alternative in selected patients . 
urinary polyamines in colorectal cancer . urine polyamine content is increased in patients with colorectal malignancy and may be a useful tumor marker in the management of these patients . urinary excretion of putrescine and spermidine was measured preoperatively and in the first week postoperatively in nine patients with inflammatory bowel disease , eight with other benign colorectal disease , and 13 with colorectal cancer . preoperative urine putrescine levels were elevated similarly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease and malignancy . polyamine levels were increased in all three groups in the early postoperative period . urinary polyamine excretion did not correlate with serum cea levels , tumor volume , or stage of disease in patients with cancer . because elevated levels of urinary polyamines are not specific for malignancy and do not correlate with other prognostic indicators , such measurements are unlikely to be useful in tumor detection and determining prognosis . polyamine levels , however , may prove useful in monitoring response to therapy and detecting recurrences in individual patients . 
a study of optimal length of flexible fiberoptic sigmoidoscopes for initial endoscopic training . eighteen trainees with no prior fiberoptic endoscopic experience performed a total of 305 fiberoptic sigmoidoscopies using a colonoscope . basic training , consisting of reading materials , lecture instructions , practice on a colon model , and observation of procedures , was completed prior to beginning patient examinations . additional instruction was given between examinations . the performance of these examinations was an individual effort on the part of the trainee without verbal or mechanical assistance from the instructor after the initial ten examinations . all were performed with an instructor viewing through a teaching attachment . total insertion distance was greater than or equal to 30 , greater than or equal to 40 , greater than or equal to 50 , greater than or equal to 60 cm in 65 , 60 , 46 , and 20 percent of examinations , respectively . overall performance was better in those with prior rigid sigmoidoscopic experience ( 20 examinations ) . the mean examination time was 11.8 minutes . these data help to define the appropriate length of fiberoptic sigmoidoscope recommended for use by inexperienced endoscopists . 
the leading cord method of colonofiberscopy . although the colonofiberscope has undergone various modifications and improvements , the insertion principle remains unchanged ; that is , pushing and rotation and the elasticity of the scope itself are inevitable . it often is difficult to maintain proper balance among these dynamic factors ; imbalance prevents deep insertion . over-elongation of the scope leads to insertion failure , particularly if there are adhesions of the sigmoid colon , overextension of the colon , or transverse colon ptosis . our " leading cord " method is an excellent aid to colonofiberscopy . it can be inserted from the clamp hole of a conventional fiberscope and hardened to straighten the scope , thereby permitting deep insertion . with this technique the region from the rectum to the descending colon , as well as a ptosed transverse colon , can be straightened . our clinical experience indicates that the rate of successful insertions in colonofiberscopy will be increased considerably with this complementary device . 
the double stapling technique for low anterior resection of rectal carcinoma . the double stapling technique ( ta-55 and eea staplers ) was used to perform low anterior resections for rectal carcinomas in 79 patients ( 49 men , 30 women ) . the mean age was 66 years ( range , 38 to 85 years ) . curative resections were performed in 68 patients , and palliative resections in 11 patients . the mean level of the cancer from the dentate line was 9 cm ( range , 5 to 16 cm ) . the mean follow-up has been 29 months ( range , four to 58 months ) . perioperative mortality was 2.5 percent ( two patients ) . technical problems related to the stapling technique occurred in 6 percent ( five patients ) . the clinical anastomotic leak rate was 8 percent ( six patients ) . there were 11 local recurrences among 68 curative resections ( 16 percent ) . local recurrence according to individual surgeon showed marked variability ( range , 0-43 percent , p greater than 0.05 ) . there were no differences in location , differentiation , or stage in those that recurred . the mean distal resection margin for the recurrent cancer group was 3.0 cm and for the nonrecurrent group , 2.9 cm . disturbances of continence were seen commonly ( 56 percent ) in the first three months after surgery , but 85 percent of patients became fully continent with an acceptable bowel habit at later follow-up . the double stapling technique is useful for the restorative resection of suitable mid and low rectal cancers . the anastomotic leak rate , local recurrence rate , and functional results are acceptable . 
the value of colonoscopy in schistosomal , tuberculous , and amebic colitis . two-year experience . forty-six patients were diagnosed as having schistosomal , tuberculous , or amebic colitis over a two-year period using colonoscopy and biopsy . both schistosomal and tuberculous colitis could be diagnosed by characteristic endoscopic and histologic features in the majority of cases . colonoscopy provided the added advantage of endoscopic polypectomy at the diagnostic session itself . the yield of granulomas in tuberculous lesions was 100 percent , although acid-fast bacilli could not be recovered from any . the endoscopic picture of amebic colitis often resembles that of inflammatory bowel disease ; hence endoscopic biopsies are of paramount importance in establishing a correct diagnosis , especially in developing countries where both diseases exist with considerable frequency . 
endoscopic criteria for malignancy in colon adenomas . the dunce cap adenoma . histologic criteria for malignancy in colonic adenomas have been well established , but little has been written regarding the gross or macroscopic appearance of malignant adenomas . the following nine criteria , listed in order of most to least importance , were used to endoscopically evaluate polypoid lesions of the colon : friability , ulceration , firmness , the dunce cap sign , lobulation , asymmetry , size , macroscopic growth pattern , and color . three cases of the dunce cap adenoma are reported in detail . in evaluating 121 consecutive colonic lesions , 87 percent were resected endoscopically . eleven carcinomas , three villous adenomas , and two lipomas were not removed via the endoscope . 
changes in physician visits for gastric and duodenal ulcer in the united states during 1958-1984 as shown by national disease and therapeutic index ( ndti ) . a decline in hospital admissions , surgery , and death rates resulting from peptic ulcer disease has been observed in the united states . it is as yet unsettled whether these changes represent a real fall in ulcer incidence or are only due to changes in the practices of treatment and coding of gastric and duodenal ulcer . based on monthly surveys among random samples of office-based physicians from different specialities and regions in the united states , the national disease and therapeutic index ( ndti ) publishes annual information on how often physicians were visited for different kinds of diseases . the physician visits for gastric and duodenal ulcer between 1958 and 1984 were used to study the time trends of gastric and duodenal ulcer disease . the visits for duodenal ulcer markedly declined during the past 20 years . the decline in duodenal ulcer involved first and subsequent visits and both sexes similarly . the rate of first visits for gastric ulcer declined in men but remained unchanged in women . from 1958 to 1984 , the rate of all visits for gastric ulcer decreased in men and increased slightly in women . the ratio of male over female ulcer disease decreased in both ulcer types . for duodenal ulcer , this change resulted predominantly from a steeper decline in men than in women rather than from an increase of female ulcer disease . for gastric ulcer , the relative rise of female ulcer disease was most marked in the old age groups . the similarity between the temporal trends of visits for gastric and duodenal ulcer and other statistics of ulcer morbidity suggest that these trends reflect real changes in the occurrence of the two diseases . 
pancreatitis and large bowel obstruction [ letter ] 
cronkhite-canada syndrome [ letter ] 
adenoma laser therapy [ letter ] 
surgical myotomy in patients with high-amplitude peristaltic esophageal contractions . manometric and clinical effects . high-amplitude peristaltic esophageal contractions , or the nutcracker esophagus , may be associated with chest pain or dysphagia . medical treatment for this disorder is sometimes not satisfactory . we report the manometric and clinical effects of myotomy in four patients with high-amplitude peristaltic contractions who underwent surgery because of the severity of their symptoms and recalcitrance to various medical treatments . manometry 1-5 years after surgery showed a reduction in amplitude , duration , and percent bipeaked waves at 5 and 10 cm above the lower esophageal sphincter . peristalsis was abolished or decreased in the distal 10 cm of the esophageal body but was not affected more proximally . lower esophageal sphincter pressure was decreased in all patients . the manometric changes were least marked in one patient , who was the only one who had some chest pain when last seen five years after myotomy . we conclude that in severely symptomatic patients with high-amplitude peristaltic contractions , myotomy results in marked manometric changes and marked clinical improvement . patients with this disorder and whose chest pain is recalcitrant to extensive medical therapy may be successfully treated by surgical myotomy . 
changes in distal esophageal function in response to cooling . the effects upon esophageal motility of water at room temperature and 0 degrees c , taken as repeated small boluses and as 200-ml volumes swallowed as rapidly as possible , were compared before and after pretreatment with isosorbide denitrate 5 mg sublingually , in nine young healthy subjects and two patients with esophageal spasm . iced water caused reduced strength , increased duration , and reduced velocity of distal esophageal contractions . it also reduced the force of lower esophageal sphincteric contraction , an effect that was more transient than that seen in the esophageal body , but it did not alter the magnitude of sphincteric relaxation . esophageal responses in normal subjects with water at the two temperatures were not affected by isosorbide denitrate . the responses to iced water in the two patients with esophageal spasm were qualitatively similar to those in normal subjects . these findings indicate that cooling brings about a transient state of relative paralysis in the distal esophagus and lower esophageal sphincter . taken in conjunction with other observations , they are consistent with the notion that cold-induced chest pain , whether in normal subjects or in patients with esophageal motor disorders , is related to esophageal distension . 
effect of renal failure or portacaval shunt on release of neurotensin in man . neurotensin-like immunoreactivity ( ntli ) is released into the circulation following a meal . however , the factors influencing its degradation and metabolism are uncertain , but it is presumed that the kidneys and liver are involved . this study has determined the release of ntli after a liquid fat meal ( 200 ml 20 % intralipid ) in 10 healthy control subjects , five patients with stable chronic renal failure ( crf ) , and five patients after a portacaval shunt ( pcs ) , to assess the possible role of the liver and kidney in ntli metabolism . ntli was measured by radioimmunoassay using both specific c and n terminally directed antisera . the results showed : basal ntli levels are similar in controls , after pcs , and in crf . a liquid fat meal produces a single early peak of ntli and levels are greater after pcs than in controls or crf . levels return much more slowly to basal in crf and after pcs . thus it is likely that both the liver and kidney are involved in the metabolism and clearance of ntli . 
absence of significant role of bile acids in diarrhea of a heterogeneous group of postcholecystectomy patients . twenty-five postcholecystectomy ( pc ) patients who underwent a diagnostic work-up for persistent diarrhea and six control subjects were studied . fourteen of the 25 patients were also characterized by conditions other than pc which could play a role in the pathogenesis of the diarrhea . however , none of the patients had evidence of ileal disease or resection . the average follow-up of the patients after the study was approximately 4.4 years . excretion , composition , and aqueous-phase concentrations of fecal bile acids were analyzed using gas-liquid chromatography . eleven of the 25 pc patients showed an increased fecal bile acid excretion . in three of the 11 patients , the magnitude of the bile acid loss , which ranged from 2.26 to 3.34 mmol / 24 hr , indicated the presence of severe bile acid malabsorption . the fecal bile acid composition showed a significant shift from secondary to primary bile acids . in spite of the presence of marked bile acid malabsorption , the aqueous-phase concentrations of the dihydroxy bile acids , chenodeoxycholic and deoxycholic acids , did not , with one exception , reach the secretory level of 1.5 mm . the relatively low aqueous concentrations were the result of low bile acid solubility , due to an acidic fecal ph . only two of nine patients , one with severe , and the other with equivocal bile acid malabsorption , who were treated with cholestyramine , showed an improvement of the diarrhea . the findings of subsecretory bile acid concentrations in the fecal aqueous phase and of inconsistent therapeutic responses to cholestyramine indicate that , in spite of the presence of bile acid malabsorption , the diarrhea was , with few exceptions , not bile acid-induced . the results of the study also suggest that the diarrhea in many pc patients is multifactorial in origin . 
effect of chronic feeding of ethanol diet of " average " fat content on rat pancreas . the present study was done to determine the influence of dietary fat on the effect of ethanol on pancreatic macromolecular content and secretion . weight-matched groups of sprague-dawley rats were divided into controls fed rodent-blox ad libitum ; american institute of nutrition-76 ( ain-76 ) diet containing 12 % calories as fat with 36 % of carbohydrate calories replaced with 5 % ( weight / volume ) concentration of ethanol fed ad libitum pair fed with animals given isocaloric amounts of ain-76 diet for three to six months . compared with rodent-blox fed controls , tissue content of trypsinogen , chymotrypsinogen , amylase , and lipase ; specific activity and concentration of trypsinogen , chymotrypsinogen ; and concentration of amylase were decreased at six months in ain-76 fed controls . these changes did not result from diminished food intake , but were due to adaptation to the liquid diet . animals fed ain-76 diet plus ethanol did not show significant difference in the total content , specific activity , concentration , and secretion of digestive enzymes compared with those animals pair fed isocaloric amounts of ain-76 diet . activation of trypsinogen by exogenous trypsin was lower in rats fed ain-76 diet and a similar change was observed in animals fed ain-76 diet with ethanol for six months . these findings are in contrast to increased secretion of proteases and decreased trypsin inhibitor observed previously in animals fed ethanol in a diet containing " high " fat . these data indicate that ethanol effect on the pancreas is modified by dietary intake of fat and / or carbohydrates . 
effect of neurotensin on amylase secretion from rat pancreas in vivo and in vitro . the effects of neurotensin , a tridecapeptide localized mainly in the gut , on pancreatic secretion are controversial . it is not clear whether the effects are mediated by direct or indirect effects . the present study was done to determine the effect of threshold doses of neurotensin in vivo in the rat as well as in vitro to clarify whether the action is direct or indirect . for in vivo studies the pancreatic duct of rats was cannulated and threshold doses of neurotensin and cck-8 alone or in combination were infused as an intravenous bolus and pancreatic juice collected at 10-min intervals for 1 hr . for in vitro studies dissociated lobules and acini were incubated for 1 hr with 10 ( -11 ) -10 ( -6 ) m neurotensin with or without 10 ( -9 ) m cck-8 ( maximally effective dose ) . amylase secretion in the pancreatic juice or in the medium was determined . neurotensin and cck-8 at a dose of 50 pm / kg increased pancreatic protein secretion in vivo . neurotensin in combination with cck-8 did not potentiate protein secretion . in the pancreatic lobules and acini , neurotensin 10 ( -11 ) -10 ( -6 ) m alone or in combination with cck-8 ( 10 ( -9 ) m ) did not stimulate amylase secretion above the basal level or that stimulated with cck-8 . the combined data indicate that the effect of neurotensin is not mediated by a direct action on the pancreatic acinar cells . 
assessment of the neural defect in a dog with idiopathic megaesophagus . in a dog with megaesophagus , we studied the upper ( ues ) and lower ( les ) esophageal sphincter responses to swallowing , the ues response to intraesophageal balloon distension and acid perfusion , the fasting les , stomach and upper small bowel motor activity , and the les response to intraesophageal balloon distension . the findings were compared to those in two normal dogs . in normal dogs , balloon distension ( 10-40 cc ) and acid perfusion ( 0.1-0.4 n hcl ) at 5 , 10 , and 15 cm distal to the ues produced up to 200 % and 100 % increases in ues pressure , respectively . fasting les activity in these dogs was coupled to the cyclical migrating motor complex ( mmc ) activity of the stomach and intestine , with phase i , random phase ii , and phase iii employing 40 % , 40 % , and 20 % of cycle time , respectively . balloon distension ( 10-40 cc ) at 5 , 10 , and 15 cm proximal to the les in phases i , ii , and iii produced 80-100 % relaxation of the sphincter . in the dog with megaesophagus : the ues and les response to swallowing was normal ; balloon distension ( 10-40 cc ) in the upper esophagus produced no significant increase ( p greater than 0.05 ) in ues pressure while acid perfusion ( 0.1-0.4 n hcl ) produced a significant but relatively smaller increase ( 50 % ) in ues pressures ; phase i mmc activity in this dog was absent or very short in duration ( less than 5 % cycle time ) , the activity mostly alternating between phases ii and iii ( 75-80 % and 20 % cycle time , respectively ) ; and balloon distension in the distal esophagus ( up to 80 cc ) induced no observable relaxation ( less than 10 % ) of the les . conclusion : the normal ues and les response to swallowing and the presence of cyclical mmc activity in the les indicates that the efferent neural pathways , at least to these areas , are intact in the dog with megaesophagus . absence or decreased response of the ues and les to intraluminal stimuli suggests that at least the afferent component of the reflex neural pathways is faulty in idiopathic megaesophagus . the location of the defect is yet to be determined . 
nutritional absorption in short bowel syndrome . evaluation of fluid , calorie , and divalent cation requirements . eight patients with a short bowel resulting from intestinal resection and clinically stable for at least one year were studied for 10 days . the diet chosen was lactose-free with a low fiber content and contained 22 % of total calories as protein , 32 % as carbohydrate , and 46 % as fat . total fluid volume was kept constant , and all patients were in positive nitrogen balance . during the 10-day period , blood chemical concentrations , stool , and / or ostomy volume , urine volume , electrolyte excretion , and calorie and divalent cation absorption were measured . in addition it was determined that fluid restriction during meals did not affect these parameters . in these patients the absorptions of fat , carbohydrate , protein , and total calories were 54 % , 61 % , 81 % , and 62 % , respectively . similarly the absorption of the divalent cations , calcium , magnesium , and zinc , were 32 % , 34 % , and 15 % , respectively . we suggest that patients with short bowel syndrome , who have been stable for at least one year and who can tolerate oral diets , do not need to restrict fat or to separate fluids from solids during their meals . furthermore , they should increase their oral intake to 35-40 kcal / kg ideal body weight in order to counteract their increased losses . the diet should contain 80-100 g protein / day in order to maintain a positive nitrogen balance and a large margin of safety . in addition , these patients may take oral supplementation of calcium , magnesium , and zinc to maintain divalent cation balance . 
surgical myotomy for nutcracker esophagus . to be or not to be ? [ editorial ] 
the substantia nigra is an important site for the containment of seizure generalization in the kindling model of epilepsy . to investigate the role of the substantia nigra ( sn ) in kindling , electrical stimulation of the sn was delivered at various times before or after stimulation of the amygdala ( am ) or pyriform cortex during or after kindling in rats . the results were as follows : ipsilateral sn stimulation delivered prior to each am kindling stimulation for 14 days significantly retarded the appearance of stage 4 and 5 seizures and shortened the afterdischarge ( ad ) duration . bilateral sn prestimulation blocked seizure generalization in some am- or pyriform cortex-kindled animals , prolonged the latency to bilateral forelimb clonus in others , and shortened the ad duration of the kindled seizure in a current intensity-dependent fashion . these effects were only partially antagonized by haloperidol , but were completely abolished by picrotoxin . the picrotoxin alone significantly reduced the latency . almost no effect was found when the sn stimulation was delivered after the onset of bilateral forelimb clonus . we conclude that the sn might be an important mediator of the early aspects of seizure generalization from limbic epileptic foci . the relative involvements of gabaergic gamma-aminobutyric acid and dopaminergic systems of the sn in this inhibitory function are discussed . 
decreased gaba , benzodiazepine , and picrotoxinin receptor binding in brains of rats after cobalt-induced epilepsy . in previous studies of experimental and human epilepsy , defects have been shown in the gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) receptors . we further investigated the role of the gaba / benzodiazepine / picrotoxinin receptor complex in the epileptic focus and also in other regions of the rat brain . the focus was induced by cobalt implantation to the right motor cortex , and the brains were dissected 16-19 days after the operation . benzodiazepine ( using [ 3h ] flunitrazepam as a ligand ; flu ) , gaba [ 3h ] muscimol ; mus ) , and picrotoxinin [ ( 35s ] t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate ; tbps ) receptor bindings were measured in different brain areas and the values were compared with glass-implanted controls . in the focal area , the specific receptor binding decreased in the order tbps greater than flu greater than mus . in the perifocal area only tbps binding decreased , and scatchard analysis showed a decrease in the number of binding sites ( p less than 0.05 ) without any effect on binding affinity . no change was seen in the binding characteristics of the other areas studied . according to our results , in cobalt-induced epilepsy the gaba / benzodiazepine / picrotoxinin receptor complex is modulated in the focal area ; this may lead to a defect in chloride conductance , which in turn induces disturbed control of neuronal activity in the epileptic focus . 
failure of acth to alter transfer kindling in the immature brain . for a study of the effects of acth on established seizures , 16-day-old rats that had been previously kindled in the amygdala were given a high daily dosage of acth gel for 15 days and then underwent transfer kindling in the contralateral amygdala . there were no significant differences in the rate of transfer kindling between the controls and acth-treated rats . this study indicates that in the immature animal acth does not alter the kindled state . 
epileptic seizures as a cause of unilateral pulmonary edema . we report three patients with recurrent tonic-clonic seizures associated with unilateral pulmonary edema . each lung was involved on separate occasions in one patient . the mechanisms of seizure-related pulmonary edema are discussed . although accurate diagnosis of unilateral postictal pulmonary edema may be difficult because of its rarity , not all pulmonary abnormalities that follow seizures represent pneumonia . 
infantile spasms following near-drowning : a report of two cases . we report the occurrence of infantile spasms following near-drowning in two children with previously normal development . in both cases , the episode of near-drowning occurred well after the 1st year of life , and the age at onset of spasms ( 20 and 34 months , respectively ) was unusually late . the possible significance of these two cases in relation to the pathophysiological mechanism underlying infantile spasms is briefly discussed . 
effect of phenytoin on antibody production : use of a murine model . an animal model was used to study the effects of phenytoin on immune function . inbred nfs mice , injected with phenytoin , 10-40 mg / kg , and immunized with bovine serum albumin ( bsa ) , demonstrated a dose-dependent decrease in production of igg antibodies to bsa . phenytoin at the dosages used in this study did not appear to be overtly toxic to immune organs and cells as judged by normal weights of thymus and spleen and normal wbc counts of mice injected with phenytoin . in addition , mice receiving phenytoin had normal body weights , liver weights , and hematocrits . the usefulness of an animal model to study immunomodulatory effects of antiepileptic drugs is discussed . 
mutagenic risk in epileptic patients before and after anticonvulsant therapy . therapy with anticonvulsant drugs has often been found to result in somatic chromosome aberrations in adult patients . there is also the possibility of epileptic fathers or mothers playing a role in the production of congenital malformations in their offspring . we have used the technique of sister chromatid exchange ( sce ) , a sensitive indicator of mutagenicity , to observe the mutagenic susceptibility in both male and female epileptic patients in different age groups prior to and after anticonvulsant therapy , and with respect to control . the frequency of sce was significantly higher in all the age groups for treated and untreated cases compared with control . between treated and untreated subjects in age group 26-50 years , a significantly higher sce frequency was observed in the untreated patients ( p less than 0.01 ) . similarly , untreated male patients showed a significantly higher sce frequency ( p less than 0.025 ) compared with treated male patients . although the results of this study provide a general assessment of mutagenicity in epileptic patients that agrees with other studies and emphasizes the role of the disease in the higher occurrence of congenital malformation in their offspring , the importance of higher sce frequency in untreated patients remains to be explained in further studies . 
evidence for a possible cytosol estrogen receptor deficiency in endocervical glands of infertile women with poor cervical mucus . endocervical gland estrogen receptor ( er ) deficiency has been proposed as a possible cause for the poor cervical mucus ( cm ) in some infertile women with cervical factor . cytosol ers were measured in endocervical tissue obtained by biopsy within 3 days of ovulation ( determined by the endogenous luteinizing hormone [ lh ] surge ) in five infertile women with persistent poor preovulatory cm ( group 1 ) and in endocervical tissue obtained in the late follicular phase in eight ovulatory women with excellent cm ( group 2 ) . er concentrations were measured in fmol / mg protein by the dextran-coated charcoal separation method ( new england nuclear kit , boston , ma ) . cm score evaluation and measurement of serum estradiol ( e2 ) and progesterone ( p ) levels were performed concomitantly . serum e2 levels of 123.4 + / - 29.3 pg / ml ( mean + / - standard error of the mean [ sem ] ) in group 1 were comparable to e2 levels of 123.3 + / - 15.0 pg / ml in group 2. serum p concentrations of 0.9 + / - 0.27 ng / ml in group 1 were comparable to 0.79 + / - 0.29 in group 2. a cm score of 4.6 + / - 0.69 in group 1 was significantly lower than 11.6 + / - 0.53 in group 2 ( p less than 0.01 ) . the cytosol er was negative in four of five women in group 1 , whereas in group 2 , er was positive in six , borderline in one , and negative in one subject . this study suggests that cytosol er may be deficient in some women with cervical factor . 
progesterone ( p ) receptor dynamics in estrogen primed normal human cervix following p injection . progesterone ( p ) receptor levels were measured in the cytosol and in the 0.4 m kcl nuclear extract in human cervical tissues with [ 3h ] -r5020 as a ligand and the results compared with those obtained in the myometrium and endometrium of the same uteri . tissue samples were obtained from 28 women , grouped as follows : group a , 12 premenopausal controls ; group b , 7 perimenopausal women who received estrogen 7 to 11 days before operation ; and group c , 9 perimenopausal and postmenopausal women who received estrogen as in group b plus p injection 1 to 3 hours before operation . estrogen administration resulted in a significant rise in total p receptor levels in the cervix , compared with the endometrium and myometrium . p injection after estrogen priming resulted in down-regulation of the p receptor in the cervix to undetectable levels , whereas in the endometrium and myometrium it resulted only in redistribution of the p receptor , with higher nuclear levels and lower cytosol levels . these results indicate the possibility of a different mechanism of regulation of the p receptor in the human cervix , compared with that in the endometrium and myometrium . 
serologic evidence of prior chlamydial infection in patients with tubal ectopic pregnancy and contralateral tubal disease . oviductal damage from infectious salpingitis is a principle cause of ectopic pregnancy . to examine the role of chlamydia trachomatis in patients with ectopic pregnancy , 24 patients undergoing laparotomy for ectopic pregnancy were evaluated by assessment of chlamydial serology and chlamydial cultures of tubal biopsy specimens . the patients were divided into two groups based on the presence or absence of gross abnormalities in the fallopian tube contralateral to the ectopic gestation . ten patients in group i showed gross evidence of chronic salpingitis in the contralateral tube ; 14 patients in group ii had normal-appearing contralateral tubes . chlamydial cultures were negative in both groups . chlamydial immunoglobulin m antibodies assayed by indirect microimmunofluorescence were negative in both groups ( less than or equal to 1 : 32 ) . mean geometric immunoglobulin g titers for c . trachomatis were significantly higher in the patients with evidence of contralateral chronic salpingitis ( 78.9 versus 13.1 ) . these findings suggest that c . trachomatis may be a major cause of oviductal damage , which predisposes to ectopic pregnancy . 
a 48-hour preservation of an isolated human uterus : endometrial responses to sex steroids . human uteri were perfused with krebs-ringer bicarbonate-glucose buffer with and without estrogens and progesterone for a period of up to 48 hours to preserve a viable organ , which was responsive to hormones . flow rates of 12 to 35 ml / minute per artery were fully distributed into the organ , with pressure values ranging from 80 to 120 mm hg . arteriovenous gradients of oxygen and carbon dioxide tensions as well as the levels of lactate , lactic dehydrogenase , and creatine kinase released in the perfusate , indicators of tissue ischemia or cell necrosis , showed a good preservation of the organ for up to 48 hours . the light- and electron-microscopic examinations of endometrial and myometrial tissues taken before and during perfusion confirmed this result . the extracorporeal perfusion of uteri with buffer containing estrogens plus progesterone exhibited secretive modifications of the proliferative endometrium , thus suggesting the viability of the organ and its responsiveness to sex steroids . 
results of in vitro fertilization attempts in women 40 years of age and older : the norfolk experience . twenty-nine patients 40 years of age or older were stimulated with gonadotropins , starting on day 3 of the cycle , in a total of 64 cycles ( january 1983 to june 1985 ) for multiple follicular development for in vitro fertilization . most patients ' infertility was due to tubal disease ( n = 8 ) or pelvic endometriosis ( n = 14 ) . the mean number of preovulatory and immature oocytes recovered per laparoscopy was 2.53 + / - 1.73 and 1.57 + / - 1.58 , respectively . there were no statistically significant differences between the number of preovulatory and immature oocytes harvested , fertilized , or transferred in this group and the number in patients younger than 40 years of age . no statistically significant differences were observed between peripheral estradiol and progesterone levels in patients 40 years of age or older and levels in patients 39 years of age or younger . there were 15 pregnancies in this group of patients , for a pregnancy rate of 23.4 % per stimulated cycle , 27.7 % per laparoscopy , and 29.4 % per transfer . the ongoing pregnancy rate ( 12 % ) was lower , and the total abortion rate ( 60 % ) was higher , in patients 40 years of age or older in comparison with patients 39 years of age or younger . patients 40 years of age or older should be counseled regarding the high abortion rate in this group . 
effects of artificial cryptorchidism on sperm morphology . in a diurnal artificial cryptorchidism ( ac ) experiment intended to provide a male contraceptive method , oligoasthenozoospermia was found as early as the fourth month , accompanied by an increase in the mean percentage of abnormally shaped spermatozoa . a detailed morphologic study concerning 19 volunteers exposed for 6 to 24 months demonstrated that the overall increase of the mean percentage of abnormally shaped spermatozoa resulted from the percentage increase of elongated , thin , and irregular heads and of bent tails . this increase is probably caused by the rise in environmental testicular temperature induced by ac . a return to baseline values was observed within 12 months after the end of the experiment . 
the effect of protein supplementation on single-cell mouse embryos in vitro . for determination of the effect of protein supplementation on single-cell mouse embryos in vitro , 842 single-cell embryos were cultured initially in protein-free medium for variable periods of time and then transferred to bovine serum albumin ( bsa ) -supplemented medium . the embryos cultured for 24 hours or longer in protein-free medium demonstrated significantly reduced growth rates . an additional 770 embryos were cultured in bsa-supplemented medium initially and then transferred to human fetal cord serum ( hcs ) -supplemented medium . significantly reduced growth rates were observed when transfer from bsa to hcs occurred at 48 hours or earlier , and an increased hatching rate was seen if culture in bsa-supplemented medium continued for up to 57 hours . another 492 embryos were cultured in hcs-supplemented medium and then transferred to bsa . significantly reduced growth rates were observed when the transfer occurred at 24 hours or later . hcs was then separated by ultrafiltration ( 10 , 000 mol wt cutoff ) , and 1109 embryos were cultured in the media with bsa , whole hcs , small molecular weight fraction ( smcs ) , or large molecular weight fraction ( lmcs ) of hcs or bsa and smcs . the embryos cultured with smcs demonstrated a significantly reduced growth rate even if bsa was added in the medium . in summary , it appears that the type and timing of protein supplementation of the culture medium is important to embryo growth . moreover , it seems that serum contains properties that may even be toxic to embryo survival in vitro . 
donation of fertilized uterine ova to infertile women . nonsurgical recovery of a preimplantation conceptus from the uterus of a fertile donor woman with transfer to an infertile recipient woman and subsequent pregnancy has been described previously . in this report , we describe the performance of 56 nonsurgical uterine lavages , recovery of 23 ova , and transfer of 17 ova with production of 8 viable pregnancies . four pregnancies resulted in healthy infants , two aborted , and two are progressing normally . we describe a case of a woman donating an ovum to her sister , with birth of a healthy child . we also describe a viable pregnancy resulting from nonsurgical ovum transfer to a woman with no ovaries . donation of ova by uterine lavage is a new method of overcoming human infertility ; it is nonsurgical , has a low complication rate , and may be repeated several times until it produces pregnancy . 
epidural block : a preferred method of anesthesia for ultrasonically guided oocyte retrieval . 
the distribution of endometriosis in the pelvis by age groups and fertility . in this series of patients , endometriosis does not involve more pelvic areas in older age groups . exposure to pregnancy is associated with slightly less pelvic involvement , although this effect is inconstant when age groups are studied individually . 
frozen semen : efficiency in artificial insemination and advantage in testing for acquired immune deficiency syndrome . 
microsurgical reconstruction of the proximal oviduct . since the successful advent of in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer ( ivf-et ) , reproductive surgeons have been forced to compare pregnancy outcomes of surgical procedures for tubal infertility with those of ivf-et . the current study reports pregnancy outcomes , with extended follow-up , in patients who had proximal oviductal obstruction . twenty-seven patients who had proximal oviductal disease with limited distal disease were evaluated after microsurgical repair . the conception rate at the end of 3 years of observation was 69.3 % . the live birth rate was 53.2 % at 3 1 / 2 years . the results indicate that microsurgical reconstruction of proximal oviductal occlusion is a workable option for patients with infertility . 
comparison of different treatment modalities of endometriosis in infertile women . this study was designed to evaluate the effectiveness of three therapeutic modalities in the management of stage i and ii endometriosis . management modalities consisted of no treatment ( controls , n = 56 ) ; oral medroxyprogesterone acetate ( mpa ) , 30 mg orally per day for 90 days ( n = 36 ) ; and danazol , 600 to 800 mg daily for 6 months ( n = 52 ) . all patients were followed for at least 18 months of exposure to pregnancy . cumulative pregnancy rates were determined by life-table analysis . at 30 months , pregnancies resulted in 55 % of group i ( controls ) , 71 % of group ii ( mpa ) , and 46 % of group iii ( danazol ) . there were no significant differences among these rates . similarly , there was no significant difference between the cumulative pregnancy rates for stage i ( 59 % ) and for stage ii ( 57 % ) . abortion rates for the various treatment modalities were the following : mpa 6.3 % , danazol 11 % , and no treatment , 14.3 % . the spontaneous abortion rate in stage i and stage ii disease was not significantly different . the results of this study suggest that a period of expectant management with correction of other infertility factors may be warranted in patients with mild to moderate endometriosis before medical therapy is contemplated . 
diurnal variations in midluteal serum progesterone measurements . the utility of a single midluteal phase progesterone ( p ) value has been questioned by studies that document pulsatile p secretion . in this study , fluctuations of p values during clinical sampling times were investigated . significant differences were found between morning and afternoon mean p values and in the timed occurrence of clinically relevant p values . despite reported pulsatile secretion , the impact of clinically significant fluctuations may be minimized by the use of timed sampling . 
serum progesterone levels following vaginal administration of progesterone during the luteal phase . we measured serum progesterone ( p ) levels after administration of 400 mg p vaginal suppositories to women during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle . blood samples were obtained before suppository insertion and at five intervals up to 8 hours after insertion . on the first day of treatment with p suppositories , there was a substantial elevation in serum p above baseline after insertion . however , on subsequent days of administration a smaller increment in serum p was observed . in 4 women studied on days 1 and 8 of the same treatment cycle in the luteal phase , a smaller rise in serum p following suppository administration on day 8 , compared with day 1 , was found . overall , a highly significant negative correlation between change in serum p from baseline and duration of vaginal suppository treatment was found . this observation does not appear to be related to the achievement of a pharmacokinetic steady state . possible mechanisms for this observation are discussed . 
quantitative histochemistry of late luteal phase human endometrium . new techniques are needed to evaluate the luteal phase endometrium in the infertility patient . toward this goal , we have applied quantitative microbiochemical techniques to the determination of enzyme activities in microdissected samples of each endometrial cell type ( i.e. , epithelial and stromal ) from individual endometrial biopsies . preliminary data on eight control patients are presented to establish a normal range of epithelial and stromal lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh ) , beta-hydroxyacyl-coa-dehydrogenase ( beta-oh-acyl-coa-dh ) , and citrate synthase ( cs ) enzyme activities . significantly higher enzyme activities were found in the epithelial cell type , compared with the stromal cell type for all three enzymes . mean enzyme activities for the eight patients , comparing epithelial to stromal values , respectively , were ( 1 ) ldh , 39.9 versus 15.4 ; ( 2 ) cs , 4.0 versus 1.2 ; and ( 3 ) beta-oh-coa-dh , 3.9 versus 2.3 mol / kgd / hour . enzyme activities are expressed as moles of substrate reacting per kilogram dry weight per hour ( mol / kgd / hour ) . 
apparent epidemic of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus in midwestern poland . there is no information concerning the risk of developing insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) in eastern europe . an iddm registry has been developed in midwest poland for 1970-1984 . the risk of developing iddm in polish children was determined through utilization of the registry . the incidence of iddm in polish children was very low compared with other caucasian populations . there was a major increase in risk beginning in 1982 ; the incidence almost doubled from 3.5 / 100 , 000 in 1970-1981 to 6.6 / 100 , 000 in 1982-1984 . the pattern of iddm in the high-risk period was different from that in the low-risk period , with an altered seasonal pattern and unusual increased incidence in younger children . the rapid increase in incidence as well as altered epidemiologic patterns during this period suggest that major alterations of environmental factors were responsible for the change in risk . 
protein sparing in skeletal muscle during prolonged starvation . dependence on lipid fuel availability . previous studies indicated that protein sparing in skeletal muscle during prolonged starvation depends on the availability of lipid fuels . to test this relationship further , fasted rats conserving protein were treated in vivo for 6-8 h with the antilipolytic agent nicotinic acid ( na ) or with tetradecylglycidate ( tdgd ) , an inhibitor of long-chain fatty acid oxidation . after treatment , protein synthesis and degradation in skeletal muscle were evaluated with the perfused rat hindquarter . na treatment decreased plasma 3-hydroxybutyrate and free fatty acids and increased plasma urea and urine urea excretion , indicating increased breakdown of body protein . tdgd produced similar metabolic effects , except that plasma free fatty acids were markedly increased as a result of inhibition of fatty acid oxidation . na and tdgd also decreased plasma insulin and increased plasma corticosteroid . inhibition of lipid metabolism in vivo resulted in accelerated loss of protein from skeletal muscle due to decreased protein synthesis and increased protein breakdown . na increased both total ( i.e. , tyrosine release ) and myofibrillar ( i.e. , 3-methylhistidine release ) protein breakdown , whereas tdgd increased the breakdown of only nonmyofibrillar proteins ( i.e. , 3-methylhistidine release by perfused hindquarter was not altered ) . these data indicate that lipid fuels may directly modulate protein metabolism in muscle during prolonged starvation and may prevent a rise in catabolic hormones . they also indicate that free fatty acids may directly attenuate the breakdown of myofibrillar proteins in muscle during prolonged starvation and that this may be unrelated to their oxidation . 
defective epinephrine and growth hormone responses in type i diabetes are stimulus specific . the counterregulatory hormone responses to hypoglycemia and a non-glucose stimulus , exercise , were evaluated in 18 subjects with type i diabetes and in 9 normal controls . subjects with diabetes had no overt neuropathy , with r-r variations and postural plasma norepinephrine increments that were similar to those of controls . the diabetic subjects exhibited normal increments in plasma growth hormone ( gh ) , norepinephrine , and cortisol but blunted or absent responses in plasma epinephrine and glucagon when hypoglycemia was severe ( less than 40 mg / dl ) . during a 60-min clamped reduction in plasma glucose at approximately 65 mg / dl , plasma gh and epinephrine increased 6- to 15-fold in controls but 2- to 4-fold in diabetics ( p less than .05 ) . however , when subjects were exercised at this plasma glucose level ( 50 w for 10 min ) , plasma epinephrine and gh in diabetics rose markedly by 150-400 % to attain the peaks reached by the controls . plasma norepinephrine and cortisol increased to similar levels in both groups , and plasma glucagon was not significantly changed . we conclude that epinephrine and gh secretion in response to hypoglycemia are reduced in type i diabetes but that these defects are stimulus specific because the responses to exercise are not reduced . 
do upper-body and centralized adiposity measure different aspects of regional body-fat distribution ? relationship to non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , lipids , and lipoproteins . both central and upper-body adiposity are associated with high rates of type ii non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) , high triglyceride levels , and low high-density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol levels . previous data have also suggested that central and upper-body adiposity are relatively uncorrelated and hence may measure different aspects of regional body fat distribution . we assessed body mass index ( bmi ) , the ratio of subscapular-to-triceps skinfold ( str ) , the ratio of waist-to-hip circumference ( whr ) , lipids , lipoproteins , and glucose tolerance in 738 mexican americans ( ages 25-64 yr ) , who participated in the san antonio heart study , a population-based study of diabetes and cardiovascular risk factors . niddm was diagnosed according to national diabetes data group criteria . in general , str and whr were associated with high niddm rates , low hdl cholesterol levels , and high triglyceride levels , although whr was somewhat more predictive of these than str . in females , bmi , whr , and str all made independent contributions to prediction of niddm and hdl cholesterol ; in males , whr and str both made independent contributions to prediction of triglyceride levels . this suggests that both indices may measure different aspects of body-fat distribution . investigators should consider measuring both of these indicators of body-fat distribution in studies of diabetes and other cardiovascular risk factors , although if only a single measure is feasible , whr appears to be preferable . 
differences in epitope restriction of autoantibodies to native human insulin ( iaa ) and antibodies to heterologous insulin ( ia ) . the binding profiles of insulin autoantibodies ( iaa ) and insulin antibodies ( ia ) to highly purified species variants and fragments of insulin were studied in direct immunospecific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) and indirect absorption experiments with insulins covalently coupled to sepharose beads . five of 10 iaa-containing sera from insulin-naive nondiabetics that bound whole human ( h ) insulin did not bind whole porcine ( p ) or whole bovine ( b ) insulins . these sera bound h insulin b-chain but not p b-chain or desalanated p insulin , suggesting they were dependent on the presence of threonine b30 . the other 5 iaa-containing sera bound h , p , b , and desalanated porcine insulins , but only 1 bound isolated b-chains . all 10 ia-containing sera from insulin-treated diabetics bound h , p , b , and desalanated p insulins , but only 1 bound to human ( and porcine ) b-chain . further binding studies with ovine , rabbit , rat , and guinea pig insulins confirmed the h ( threonine b30 ) specificity of the 5 iaa-containing sera . b30 residues do not appear to be dominant , however , when insulin is administered exogenously . instead , ia bind predominantly to a-chain or conformational determinants involving both chains . scatchard analysis of a representative h insulin-specific iaa serum suggested that it contained a single binding affinity , whereas analysis of a representative ia-diabetic serum suggested it contained several different affinities . 
effect on renal function of change from high to moderate protein intake in type i diabetic patients . the effects on renal function of moderate restriction in protein intake were studied in 14- to 20-yr-old type i diabetic patients who had no clinical renal disease or hypertension ; matched normal subjects served as controls . after assessment of protein intake and renal function , studies were conducted at the completion of each of two consecutive dietary periods of 1 wk . diets containing 3.5 and 1.5 g x kg-1 x day-1 protein were provided during the first and second periods , respectively . baseline protein intakes were substantial in both controls ( 1.86 g x kg-1 x day-1 ) and diabetics ( 2.17 g x kg-1 x day-1 ) . baseline creatinine clearance was increased in diabetics ( p = .043 ) . at the end of the high-protein intake period , both diabetics and controls showed similar high values of glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) and renal plasma flow ( rpf ) . gfr and rpf decreased markedly ( p less than .001 ) and to a similar degree in both groups after normal protein intake . gfr and rpf in diabetics were not higher than in controls at this point , but filtration fraction was increased in diabetics . albumin excretion rates were similar in both groups and not influenced by renal function changes . gfr and rpf values correlated significantly with the quantity of protein intake , as estimated from the urea nitrogen appearance rate in both groups . the results suggest that the functional response to variations in protein intake is not altered in the diabetic kidney . in addition , increased renal function in diabetics may be related partly to the excessive protein content in commonly prescribed diabetic diets . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
age-corrected empirical genetic risk estimates for first-degree relatives of iddm patients . the families of 554 type i ( insulin-dependent ) diabetics were genetically analyzed according to probands ' sex and age at onset applying a modification of stromgren 's method of age correction . lifetime recurrence risk of type i diabetes ( risk up to age 80 yr ) for first-degree relatives in three consecutive generations was calculated . the overall risk ( + / - 1 se ) for siblings was 6.6 + / - 1.1 % and for children was 4.9 + / - 1.7 % . the similar risks among siblings and children argue against a simple autosomal recessive trait . the results do not permit a conclusion about a distinct mode of inheritance . regardless of age at onset , offspring of male probands always had a higher risk than offspring of female probands . among all probands , fathers were significantly more often affected with type i diabetes ( about twice ) than mothers ( 4.1 + / - 0.9 vs . 1.7 + / - 0.6 % , respectively ) . the risk for further siblings of the proband was significantly increased in the presence of a type i diabetic parent ( 25.2 + / - 10.3 vs . 5.8 + / - 1.0 % for remaining probands ) , indicating a nonrandom clustering type i diabetes in families . younger age at onset ( less than 25 yr ) was not associated with an increased risk to siblings . type ii diabetes was not more frequent among parents and siblings of type i diabetics than in the general population . the calculated risk estimates are of practical value in genetic counseling and are important for genetic models concerning type i diabetes . 
selective reduction of hepatic cytochrome p450 content in patients with intrahepatic cholestasis . a mechanism for impairment of microsomal drug oxidation . alteration of the components of the mixed-function oxidase system , including cytochrome p450 , cytochrome b5 , cytochrome p450 reductase , and cytochrome b5 reductase , was examined in liver microsomes prepared from needle biopsy samples of 12 patients with intrahepatic cholestasis . the rate of p-nitroanisole o-demethylation in the microsomes was also measured as the activity of cytochrome p450-dependent drug oxidation . the cytochrome p450 content ( 0.29 + / - 0.05 nmol / mg microsomal protein ) in the patients was significantly lower than that in the 11 control subjects ( 0.41 + / - 0.09 ) . the rate of p-nitroanisole o-demethylation was also significantly lower in the patients . however , the cytochrome b5 content and the activities of the reduced forms of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate- and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-cytochrome c reductases did not differ between the two groups . thus , selective reduction of cytochrome p450 seems to play a major role in the impairment of microsomal drug oxidation during intrahepatic cholestasis . moreover , the reduction of cytochrome p450 was correlated with the serum concentrations of total bilirubin and bile acid but not with the serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase value . these observations suggest that the reduction of cytochrome p450 might be related to the severity of cholestasis . 
relationships between serum bilirubins and production and conjugation of bilirubin . studies in gilbert 's syndrome , crigler-najjar disease , hemolytic disorders , and rat models . the pattern of serum bilirubins was determined in serum of humans and rats with unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia due to increased pigment load or defective hepatic conjugation . bilirubin ester conjugates were present in all serum samples tested and were identified as bilirubin 1-o-acyl glucuronides . in gilbert 's syndrome , the concentration of total conjugates was comparable to the values in healthy control subjects . because the concentration of unconjugated pigment was increased , the fraction of conjugated relative to total bilirubins was markedly decreased . sera from patients with crigler-najjar disease differed from those with gilbert 's syndrome by the higher unconjugated bilirubin levels and the undetectability of diconjugated bilirubins . a striking finding was that in hemolytic disease , the concentration of both monoconjugates and diconjugates was enhanced in parallel with the increase of unconjugated pigment . therefore , the fraction of conjugated relative to total bilirubins remained within the normal range . as in gilbert 's syndrome , heterozygote r / apfd-j / + rats with impaired hepatic bilirubin conjugation exhibit an increased unconjugated bilirubin level in serum , whereas the concentration of total conjugates was comparable to the values in normal rats . in serum of normal rats loaded intraperitoneally with unconjugated bilirubin , both unconjugated and mono- and diconjugated bilirubins were increased in parallel so that the ratio of unconjugated to esterified pigment remained unaffected . decreased hepatic conjugation or increased bilirubin load was associated with a lower percentage of diconjugates relative to total conjugates both in human and rat serum . the present results are consistent with a compartmental model in which there is bidirectional transfer across the sinusoidal membrane for unconjugated bilirubin as well as for the bilirubin glucuronides . because typical patterns of serum bilirubins are found in gilbert 's syndrome and patients with hemolytic hyperbilirubinemia , determination of esterified bilirubins in serum is of value to study the pathophysiology and the differential diagnosis of unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia . 
histopathology differentiates acute self-limited colitis from ulcerative colitis . acute self-limited colitis ( aslc ) must be distinguished from chronic ulcerative colitis ( cuc ) for the proper early management of patients with the acute onset of bloody diarrhea . this study was undertaken to determine if any clinical , endoscopic , microbiologic , or histologic parameters can be used to make this distinction reliably and quickly . forty-eight patients with aslc , 36 patients with chronic ulcerative colitis during their first attack [ cuc ( f ) ] , and 84 patients with recurrent flares of chronic ulcerative colitis [ cuc ( r ) ] were studied prospectively . the presence of fever ( temperature greater than 100 degrees f ) , abdominal pain , or the time from onset of bloody diarrhea to presentation were not discriminatory . overall clinical and endoscopic severity were identical among the three groups . microbiologic studies identified an infectious agent in only 42 % of patients with aslc . histopathologic features always distinguished patients with cuc from those with aslc . no case of aslc was misdiagnosed histologically as cuc or vice versa . plasmacytosis in the lamina propria extending to the mucosal base and mucosal distortion were present in all cases of cuc ( f ) and cuc ( r ) , but were absent in all cases of aslc . the finding of focal cryptitis during the resolving phase of aslc could be confused with similar lesions in biopsy specimens from patients with crohn 's disease and mandates clinical follow-up . histopathology is thus the only reliable diagnostic tool for the rapid differentiation of aslc from cuc . however , biopsy specimens are only diagnostic when obtained during the acute phase of illness ; that is , usually within the first 4 days from the onset of symptoms . 
activation of blood coagulation in crohn 's disease . increased plasma fibrinopeptide a levels and enhanced generation of monocyte tissue factor activity . we have examined the relationships among activation of blood coagulation , generation of monocyte procoagulant activity , and clinical activity in patients with crohn 's disease . subclinical activation of blood coagulation was measured using a radioimmunoassay for fibrinopeptide a . fibrinopeptide a levels were strongly correlated with the level of disease activity as measured by the crohn 's disease activity index . patients with active disease who were successfully treated either medically or surgically demonstrated a reduction of fibrinopeptide a levels . failure of fibrinopeptide a to return to the normal range predicted an early relapse . monocyte tissue factor generation was assessed in both unstimulated and lipopolysaccharide-stimulated mononuclear cell cultures obtained from the peripheral blood of patients with crohn 's disease . a strong correlation ( r = 0.89 ) was observed between plasma fibrinopeptide a levels and monocyte tissue factor generation . these results suggest that monocyte procoagulant generation may contribute to the activation of blood coagulation in this inflammatory bowel disease . moreover , fibrinopeptide a levels in crohn 's disease may provide a useful quantitative measure of inflammatory activity . 
effect of chemical ablation of myenteric neurons on neurotransmitter levels in the rat jejunum . we have quantified neurotransmitter changes in the rat jejunum in which the myenteric neurons were ablated by serosal application of benzalkonium chloride . within 2 days after benzalkonium chloride treatment , there was a 40 % reduction in the activity of choline acetyltransferase , a specific marker for cholinergic neurons , and a 25 % reduction in the amount of vasoactive intestinal peptide per centimeter length of jejunum . by 15 days , levels were comparable to those in control segments , and by 45 days after myenteric neuronal ablation , levels in treated tissues were twice those in controls . in contrast , we observed no reduction in the amount of leucine-enkephalin per centimeter length of jejunum at early times after benzalkonium chloride treatment , although by 45 days , levels of this neurotransmitter in treated segments of jejunum were more than twice those in controls . significant increases in muscle thickness and tissue weight were also observed at 15 , 30 , and 45 days after myenteric neuronal ablation . thus we have observed that in response to chemical ablation of myenteric neurons in the rat jejunum , there is a thickening of the smooth muscle layers and a compensatory increase in the production of certain neurotransmitters by the surviving neuronal elements in the gut . 
exocytosis occurs at the lateral plasma membrane of the pancreatic acinar cell during supramaximal secretagogue stimulation . in vitro and in vivo studies indicate that the secretory response to both caerulein and carbamylcholine stimulation is biphasic . over the range of submaximal to maximal concentrations of secretagogues , discharge of exocrine proteins in vitro into the incubation medium and in vivo into the pancreatic duct increased and morphologic analysis indicated that exocytosis of zymogen granules occurred exclusively at the luminal membrane . under in vivo conditions , supramaximal stimulation with caerulein or carbamylcholine resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in amylase release into the pancreatic duct and increase in the appearance of amylase in the blood circulation . under in vitro or in vivo conditions , supramaximal secretagogue stimulation resulted in marked inhibition of exocytotic activity at the luminal plasma membrane , the appearance of intergranule contacts and fusions within the cytoplasm , and the appearance of exocytotic activity at the lateral plasma membrane . lateral exocytotic images were observed with individual and fused zymogen granules and autophagic vacuoles . this redirection in the final step of the secretory pathway provides in part the biological basis for the increased appearance of pancreatic ( pro ) enzymes in the interstitial fluid and serum during supramaximal secretagogue stimulation . 
alteration of methotrexate toxicity in rats by manipulation of dietary components . administration of a chemically defined , elemental diet to rats given 20 mg / kg of methotrexate intraperitoneally has consistently resulted in a 100 % mortality from severe enteritis within 156 h . this study examined the importance of specific dietary components in the etiology of this enhanced toxicity . rats were given their respective diets for 7 days , whereupon methotrexate ( 20 mg / kg ) was given intraperitoneally , and percent of survivors was recorded . varying the concentration of carbohydrate as polysaccharide ( 0 % , 50 % , 100 % ) ( n = 30 ) had no effect on survival . an increase in the percent of protein as polypeptide ( 0 % , 25 % , 50 % , 75 % , 100 % ) ( n = 50 ) in the elemental diet resulted in a progressively significant increase in percent survival . addition of either fat or bulk to this elemental diet had no effect on survivorship . serum and bile methotrexate levels of rats fed an elemental liquid diet ( whether or not all of the protein was provided as polypeptide ) were significantly increased from 12 to 72 h ( p less than 0.03 ) compared with rats fed a regular chow diet . when the protein content of the elemental liquid diet was provided as 100 % polypeptide , serum and bile methotrexate levels were significantly lower at 48 h compared with the elemental diet group given 100 % of protein as amino acid . administration of methotrexate to rats fed an elemental liquid diet in which all of the protein is provided as amino acids is extremely toxic to the gastrointestinal tract , probably as a result of delayed clearance of the drug from the systemic circulation and from bile . this toxicity is alleviated by the provision of protein as polypeptide in the elemental diet . no toxicity to the drug is seen at this dose in rats fed a regular chow diet . if these results are applicable to humans , the use of elemental liquid diets as the only source of enteral nutrition would appear contraindicated in patients receiving methotrexate . 
vasoactive intestinal polypeptide actions on the guinea pig intestinal mucosa during neural stimulation . electrical stimulation of the mucosal innervation of the guinea pig ileum results in an increase in chloride secretion that is mediated in part by excitation of muscarinic cholinergic receptors on enterocytes . this study investigated the involvement of vasoactive intestinal peptide in the cholinergic and noncholinergic phases of the secretory response evoked by electrical stimulation of submucosal neurons in the guinea pig ileum . flat sheets of ileum set up in ussing flux chambers responded to exogenous vasoactive intestinal peptide by an increase in baseline short-circuit current which was reduced by furosemide and by vasoactive intestinal peptide antiserum . when submucosal neurons were electrically stimulated , a biphasic change in short-circuit current was evoked . vasoactive intestinal peptide , forskolin , and isobutylmethylxanthine enhanced the cholinergic portion of the response , whereas the antiserum prevented or reduced the effects of the peptide but not of forskolin . in the presence of atropine to eliminate the cholinergically mediated response , vasoactive intestinal peptide reduced the noncholinergic phase of the response and its action was prevented by the antiserum . vasoactive intestinal peptide enhanced the increase in short-circuit current evoked by the muscarinic agonist bethanechol . these results demonstrate that vasoactive intestinal peptide and other substances that stimulate secretion by increasing cyclic 3 ' , 5'-adenosine monophosphate levels in enterocytes potentiate the calcium-dependent , cholinergic phase of the chloride secretory response evoked by neural stimulation of the guinea pig ileum . no evidence was found for vasoactive intestinal peptide as the mediator of the noncholinergic phase of the response . 
do bile acids reflux into the esophagus ? a study in normal subjects and patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease . to determine if bile acids reflux into the esophagus in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease and in normal subjects during physiological gastroesophageal reflux episodes , esophageal aspiration and ph monitoring were performed simultaneously in 16 patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease and 8 normal subjects . esophageal samples were collected for 30 min in the fasting state and for 3 h ( as hourly samples ) after the ingestion of a test meal ( egg salad sandwich , peaches , and milk ) . bile acids were assayed by a standard enzymatic assay and also by a sensitive and specific assay , liquid secondary ion mass spectrometry . bile acids were not detected by enzymatic assay in any of the fasting samples . in 6 of the 8 normal subjects and 15 of the 16 patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease , bile acid-like reactivity was detected by the enzymatic assay in postprandial samples . however , bile acid-like reactivity was also found by enzymatic assay in aliquots of the homogenized test meal in concentration similar to the highest concentrations detected in esophageal aspirates . bile acids were not detected by the liquid secondary ion mass spectrometry method in any of the fasting or postprandial esophageal aspirates ( limit of detection greater than 2 microm ) . however , this assay accurately identified samples to which exogenous bile acids were added as controls . our results suggest that bile acids did not reflux into the esophagus of patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease whom we studied and caution must be exercised in the use of enzymatic assay for bile acids in postprandial gastrointestinal fluids , as the commonly used hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase assay is not specific for bile acids alone . 
dual action of cholecystokinin-octapeptide on the guinea pig antrum . we examined the mechanism of action of cholecystokinin-octapeptide ( cck-op ) on longitudinal strips of the lesser and greater curvatures of the guinea pig antrum . in the strips of the lesser curvature , cck-op produced a concentration-dependent tonic contraction , which was significantly reduced by atropine , but not by tetrodotoxin . in contrast , cck-op caused a relaxation of the preparation of the greater curvature in a concentration-dependent manner . the relaxation induced by the peptide was enhanced by atropine , whereas it was blocked by tetrodotoxin . propranolol , phentolamine , desensitization to adenosine-5'-triphosphate , and desensitization to vasoactive intestinal polypeptide had no effect on cck-op-induced relaxation . cholecystokinin-octapeptide evoked the release of acetylcholine from strips of both sides , and it was not blocked by tetrodotoxin . these findings indicate that the mechanism of action of cck-op on the lesser curvature differs from that on the greater curvature . the peptide seems to act directly on smooth muscle cells and to stimulate cholinergic neural activity by sodium channel-independent mechanisms . additionally , nonadrenergic inhibitory neurons appear to be activated by cck-op in the greater curvature . 
h2 excretion after ingestion of complex carbohydrates . malabsorption of fermentable material in a variety of foods was assessed by measurement of breath h2 excretion . breath h2 increased well above that observed in fasting subjects after ingestion of 100 g of carbohydrate in oats , whole wheat , potatoes , corn , and baked beans . rice caused only a minimal increase in h2 excretion and hamburger was associated with no increase . we estimated the malabsorption of fermentable material by comparing the h2 excretion for 9 h after ingestion of various complex carbohydrates with that after 10 g of lactulose . the mean malabsorption of fermented material after 100-g carbohydrate meals was 20 g for baked beans ; 7-10 g for wheat , oats , potatoes , and corn ; and 0.9 g for rice . whole oats or whole wheat resulted in 2-5 times more h2 than did the refined flours . as purified fiber appeared to be a poor substrate for h2 production by fecal homogenates , we conclude that most complex carbohydrates , with the exception of rice , contain a good deal of fermentable material that escapes small bowel absorption and it seems likely that this fermentable material is malabsorbed starch . 
malabsorption , hypocholesterolemia , and fat-filled enterocytes with increased intestinal apoprotein b . chylomicron retention disease . eight infants presented with a malabsorption syndrome , normal fasting triglycerides , hypocholesterolemia ( 64.3 + / - 10.0 mg / dl ) , and deficiency of vitamins a and e . plasma low-density lipoprotein , apolipoprotein b , and apolipoprotein a-i were decreased . after a fatty meal , plasma triglycerides did not increase and chylomicrons could not be identified . lipoprotein composition was characterized by normal apoproteins , high phospholipids , and low cholesterol . increased triglycerides were present in low-density lipoproteins . immunoperoxidase localization of apolipoprotein b on fasting biopsy specimens showed increased staining of the lipid-laden intestinal epithelial cells compared to normals . on electron microscopy after a fat load , the enterocytes contained large numbers of fat particles vesiculating the endoplasmic reticulum . these particles , morphologically similar to chylomicrons , were also present as aggregates of well-individualized lipid droplets within dilated vesicles in the golgi zone , but were not seen in the intercellular spaces and lacteals . this recessively transmitted condition differs from abetalipoproteinemia and from the homozygous form of hypobetalipoproteinemia and may be caused by a defect in the final assembly of chylomicrons or in the mechanism of their exocytosis . 
collagen synthesis by human intestinal smooth muscle cells in culture . growth kinetics and collagen production were determined in smooth muscle cells isolated from human jejunum and maintained in cell culture . collagen synthesis increased during the first 15 days in culture at a time when the rate of cell proliferation was maximal . when confluent , these cells produced significantly more collagen than human dermal fibroblasts cultured under identical conditions . the smooth muscle cells required daily replenishment of ascorbate for maximal collagen synthesis . the types of collagen produced by human intestinal smooth muscle cells in culture were the same as those collagens extracted from strictured human bowel ( types i , iii , and v ) . these findings suggest that collagen production by human intestinal smooth muscle cells has a role in the repair as well as the fibrosis of the gastrointestinal tract . 
influence of chronic drug-induced achlorhydria by substituted benzimidazoles on the endocrine stomach in rats . the release of gastric somatostatinlike immunoreactivity and gastrin was studied in rats with chronic achlorhydria induced by the substituted benzimidazole by 308. in vitro , stimulation of gastrin release by acetylcholine was slightly enhanced after 1 day of treatment but no further effects were observed compared to placebo controls . four weeks of treatment evoked marked gastrin hypersecretion , which was atropine-resistant . stimulation of gastrin release was inversely correlated to enhancement of basal gastrin levels . chronic achlorhydria distinctly reduced somatostatin responses to isoproterenol , whereas potent stimulation was observed in controls . treatment with by 308 for 1 wk was associated with fully developed gastrin hypersecretion but isoproterenol-stimulated somatostatin release was still unaffected . hypergastrinemia accompanied by increased antral gastrin and reduced antral and fundic somatostatin concentrations was also found in vivo after 4 wk of treatment with by 308. it is concluded that chronic achlorhydria not only enhances storage and secretion of gastrin but also diminishes the secretion and tissue stores of somatostatin ; adaptive changes of the somatostatin cell occur , however , with a much longer delay . 
chronic severe constipation . prospective motility studies in 25 consecutive patients . the purpose of this study was to determine the patterns of gastrointestinal and anal sphincter motility in 25 consecutive patients with severe constipation . three patterns of abnormal motility were observed in 68 % of the patients : ( a ) isolated anal sphincter dysfunction ( 20 % ) , ( b ) a generalized disorder of gastrointestinal motility ( 24 % ) , and ( c ) rectosigmoid dysfunction ( 24 % ) . the remaining patients had either a previously unrecognized primary disorder leading to constipation or the irritable bowel syndrome . duration of symptoms , laxative usage , or other historical features failed to distinguish each of the groups . anal sphincter dysfunction was diagnosed by demonstrating impaired sphincter relaxation during rectal distention . generalized motor disorders were diagnosed by demonstrating impaired colonic and esophageal function together with an abnormality in gastric emptying . rectosigmoid dysfunction was manifest by an impaired rectosigmoid motor response to feeding without evidence of other organ dysfunction . these studies indicate that a high percentage of patients with more severe degrees of constipation have a serious but sometimes treatable disorder of bowel function , rather than the irritable bowel syndrome . 
additive interaction of pentagastrin and secretin on pancreatic growth in rats . the role of gastrin in regulating pancreatic growth and its interaction with secretin is unclear . we determined the dose-response relationships of pentagastrin for gastric and pancreatic secretion . doses that stimulated gastric and pancreatic secretion were given every 8 h for 3 or 5 days ; trophic responses of pancreas , oxyntic gland area , duodenum , and colon were compared . interaction of secretin and pentagastrin on pancreatic growth was measured after 5 days of treatment . pentagastrin was 250 times less potent for stimulation of pancreatic versus gastric secretion . a submaximal dose of pentagastrin for stimulating pancreatic enzyme secretion doubled pancreatic deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis after 3 days . pentagastrin caused dose-related increases in pancreatic weight after 3 and 5 days . pentagastrin had no effect on weight , deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis , or deoxyribonucleic acid content of oxyntic gland area , duodenum , or colon . secretin had additive effects on pentagastrin-induced pancreatic growth . the pancreas appears to be more sensitive than other organs to trophic effects of pentagastrin . secretin has additive rather than inhibitory effects on pentagastrin-induced pancreatic growth . 
mycobacteria and inflammatory bowel disease . results of culture . we have been able to isolate mycobacteria from intestinal specimens obtained by surgical resection or endoscopic biopsy from patients with crohn 's disease , ulcerative colitis , and noninflammatory bowel diseases . nineteen slow-growing ( runyon groups i and iii ) and 17 rapid-growing ( runyon group iv ) mycobacterial isolates were obtained . slow-growing mycobacteria were recovered from approximately one-third of intestinal biopsy specimens from crohn 's disease , one-quarter of ulcerative colitis biopsies , and 40 % of biopsies from noninflammatory bowel disease patients . isolates were most commonly members of the mycobacterium avium-complex . one isolate ( from an ulcerative colitis patient ) was biochemically similar to the mycobacterium strain previously associated with crohn 's disease , and one from a crohn 's disease patient was mycobacterium kansasii . the rapid-growing organisms were members of the mycobacterium fortuitum-complex . in addition to conventional mycobacteria , spheroplasts ( cell wall-defective forms ) were isolated from 12 patients with crohn 's disease ( most often from surgically resected colon ) and 3 patients with ulcerative colitis ; none were isolated from non-inflammatory bowel disease patients . we have been unable to identify a consistent relationship between the presence , or the species , of mycobacterium and crohn 's disease . our results do not support the proposed role of a specific mycobacterium in the pathogenesis of crohn 's disease . the cause of crohn 's disease remains unclear . 
abnormalities of peptide-containing nerve fibers in infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis . the distributions of nerve cells and fibers with immunoreactivity for the peptides enkephalin , gastrin-releasing peptide , neuropeptide y , somatostatin , substance p , and vasoactive intestinal peptide were examined in specimens of myenteric plexus and external muscle from the pylorus of 20 infants with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis . these were compared with peptide distributions in pyloric samples from unaffected infants and adults . in the normal pylorus the circular muscle was richly supplied with fibers reactive for enkephalin , neuropeptide y , substance p , and vasoactive intestinal peptide . in pyloric stenosis , these immunoreactive fiber bundles were either missing or less than 5 % of normal . in contrast , there were reactive cell bodies and nerve fibers in the myenteric plexuses of both normal and affected specimens . in the samples from cases of stenosis , swollen nerve fibers that appeared to be in the process of degeneration were frequently encountered . it is concluded that infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis is associated with a loss of peptide immunoreactivity in nerve fibers in the circular muscle , although the same peptides are still revealed in fibers and in nerve cell bodies in the myenteric plexus . 
role of cholecystokinin in the negative feedback control of pancreatic enzyme secretion in conscious rats . using a specific radioimmunoassay for cholecystokinin ( cck ) we have studied the relation between circulating cck concentrations and the feedback regulation of pancreatic enzyme secretion in conscious rats . recirculation of diverted bile-pancreatic juice into the duodenum or intraduodenal perfusion of trypsin during biliary-pancreatic juice diversion produced basal output of amylase and trypsin and low portal cck levels ( less than 10 pmol / l ) . biliary-pancreatic juice diversion or inactivation of trypsin caused increased cck concentrations ( peak values 50-100 pmol / l ) and enzyme outputs . during biliary-pancreatic juice diversion , infusion of the cck receptor antagonist proglumide suppressed the enzyme response without altering the increase in cck . measurement of portal and peripheral cck during biliary-pancreatic juice diversion yielded values of 131 + / - 37 and 32 + / - 5 pmol / l , respectively . the peripheral cck levels corresponded to concentrations achieved during exogenous cck-8 infusion which resulted in similar enzyme outputs . gel chromatography of portal plasma during diversion of biliary-pancreatic juice revealed one peak of cck corresponding to cck-8 , and a larger peak eluted between cck-33 and cck-8 , probably representing cck-22 . similar cck components were found in water extracts of jejunal mucosa , whereas the acetic acid extracts mainly contained cck-33 / 39. we conclude that the negative feedback regulation of pancreatic enzyme secretion in rats is mediated by the release of cck from the intestine and that the major molecular form of cck in plasma is probably cck-22 . 
gastric emptying of solid food in patients with gastroesophageal reflux . while delayed gastric emptying of solid food has been reported in patients with symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux , the study populations were not defined by 24-h intraesophageal ph monitoring . moreover , the influence that the gastric emptying rate may have on patterns of reflux during the day or night , as well as on esophagitis , is not known . in this study , we compared the gastric emptying rate of solid food ( in vivo intracellular labeled chicken liver ) observed in asymptomatic control volunteers ( n = 15 ) with that of symptomatic patients with an abnormal 24-h ph record who had either the presence ( n = 22 ) or absence ( n = 11 ) of endoscopic esophagitis . we found no significant difference in the gastric emptying rate between the asymptomatic control volunteers and the symptomatic patients with and without esophagitis . moreover , there was no significant correlation between the gastric emptying rate and the degree of daytime or nighttime distal esophageal acid exposure found during 24-h intraesophageal ph monitoring . only 6 % of the symptomatic patients had a gastric emptying rate that exceeded the mean value plus 2 sd of that found in the asymptomatic control volunteers . we believe these support a de-emphasis of the role that delayed gastric emptying of solid food may play in the pathophysiology of gastroesophageal reflux in most patients . 
effect of sleep , spontaneous gastroesophageal reflux , and a meal on upper esophageal sphincter pressure in normal human volunteers . owing to the inherent difficulties of recording upper esophageal sphincter pressure , little is known about normal upper esophageal sphincter physiology . in this study we used a modified sleeve device to record upper esophageal sphincter pressure continuously in 8 normal volunteers . intraesophageal ph and electroencephalogram activity were also recorded to document the occurrence of spontaneous gastroesophageal reflux and sleep . after an hour of baseline recording , the subjects ate a meal . recording was then resumed for an additional 7 h during which period the subjects slept part of the time . the mean upper esophageal sphincter pressure was measured for each 10-min epoch . electroencephalogram recordings were read blindly for the presence and stage of sleep . periods of sleep were then correlated with the manometric tracings . mean upper esophageal sphincter pressure during wakefulness , stage 1 sleep , and deeper sleep was 40 + / - 17 ( sd ) , 20 + / - 17 , and 8 + / - 3 mmhg , respectively . a significant change in upper esophageal sphincter pressure did not occur postprandially or during episodes of spontaneous gastroesophageal reflux . upper esophageal sphincter pressure was observed to increase transiently with each inspiration during periods of restfulness and sleep , a response consistent with the hypothesis that one function of the upper esophageal sphincter is to exclude air from the esophagus during respiration . the demonstration that upper esophageal sphincter pressure falls markedly during sleep may have significance in that this diminishes the barrier to nocturnal regurgitation and potential aspiration . 
vincristine alters myoelectric activity and transit of the small intestine in rats . we investigated the motility of the small intestine in unanesthetized rats receiving vincristine ( 0.075 , 0.50 , 0.75 mg / kg i.v. ) . motility was determined by two methods : myoelectric activity was monitored with indwelling bipolar electrodes , and intestinal transit was measured by the movement of radiochromium ( na51cro4 ) . only the animals injected with the two higher doses had two distinct patterns of altered intestinal myoelectric activity within 2 h of drug administration . the first alteration occurred 44 + / - 6 min after vincristine administration and consisted of a marked increase in action potential activity with disruption of the migrating myoelectric complex . the second alteration consisted of a reappearance of the activity front of the migrating myoelectric complex with a significantly shorter periodicity . a marked reduction in spike activity occurred 3 days after vincristine injection in 3 of 10 animals receiving vincristine . a biphasic response was noted in intestinal transit . disrupted activity front formation was associated with a significant delay in small bowel transit . in contrast , frequent activity front formation in rats was associated with significantly hastened transit . in summary , vincristine administration induces alterations of myoelectric activity of the small intestine in fasted rats and is associated with changes in intestinal transit . 
serum antibodies to cow 's milk proteins in ulcerative colitis and crohn 's disease . serum antibodies of immunoglobulin g , immunoglobulin m , and immunoglobulin a isotypes to five major proteins of cow 's milk , casein , bovine serum albumin , alpha-lactalbumin , beta-lactoglobulin a , and beta-lactoglobulin b , were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in 51 patients with ulcerative colitis , 49 with crohn 's disease , and 20 age-matched controls . immunoglobulin g and immunoglobulin m antibodies to cow 's milk proteins were significantly elevated in patients with inflammatory bowel disease as compared to controls . in contrast , no significant increase in immunoglobulin a antibodies to 3 of 5 proteins was noted . the increased titers of antibodies to milk proteins seem to be specific and not due to a polyclonal immunoglobulin activation , as naturally occurring blood group antibodies were not elevated in patients with ulcerative colitis and crohn 's disease . a good correlation of disease activity , as measured by serum alpha 1-acid glycoprotein concentrations , and immunoglobulin g and immunoglobulin a antibody titers against certain cow 's milk proteins could be demonstrated in crohn 's disease , but not ulcerative colitis . these findings suggest that production of antibodies to cow 's milk proteins reflects specific immunization with these antigens . the study of antibody isotypes and correlation with disease activity may provide better insight into the immune response to dietary antigens and its possible role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel diseases . 
quantitation of fecal carbohydrate excretion in patients with short bowel syndrome . we performed inpatient balance studies in 11 patients to evaluate the role of carbohydrate malabsorption in the pathogenesis of the diarrhea seen in short bowel syndrome . stool weight , total reducing substance as measured by clinitest , and total fecal carbohydrate as measured by anthrone were determined . patients had markedly increased fecal carbohydrate excretion , up to 65 % of dietary carbohydrate intake . when the diet contained oligosaccharides , measures of total reducing substance greatly underestimated fecal carbohydrate excretion and were unreliable for quantitation . stool weight correlated with total fecal carbohydrate excretion and with total reducing substance ( r = 0.79 , p less than 0.001 ) . multiple balance studies in 2 patients suggested a relationship between both the amount and type of dietary carbohydrate and fecal carbohydrate excretion . these studies suggest that carbohydrate malabsorption is a major cause of the watery diarrhea and subsequent fluid , electrolyte , and acid-base imbalance seen in patients with short bowel syndrome . 
ion transport in human cecum , transverse colon , and sigmoid colon in vitro . baseline and response to electrical stimulation of intrinsic nerves . in a flux chamber study of ion transport in human colon , we compared baseline rates with those measured during electrical stimulation of intrinsic nerves . in baseline studies , sodium was absorbed throughout , but maximally in transverse colon . in cecum , sodium absorption accounted for the short circuit current and chloride was not absorbed . chloride was absorbed in transverse and sigmoid colon , however . residual current was minimal in cecum and transverse colon , but increased in sigmoid colon . neural stimulation caused chloride secretion in cecum , reduced chloride absorption in sigmoid colon , but caused no change in transverse colon ; sodium absorption decreased in cecum . a neurotransmitter of unknown identity affects baseline short circuit current in sigmoid colon . half of the increase in short circuit caused by neural stimulation in sigmoid colon is mediated by muscarinic receptors . the identity of the other transmitter ( s ) is not known . it is not substance p or histamine . the three divisions of the colon differ in relative rates of baseline ion transport and in their transport responses to intrinsic nerve stimulation . 
pseudo-zollinger--ellison syndrome in a child presenting with anemia . pseudo-zollinger--ellison syndrome appears to very rarely afflict young children . hypergastrinemia , regardless of the etiology , presents with signs and symptoms of nonhealing or multiple gastric or duodenal ulcers , or both . we present a 7-yr-old boy with fasting hypergastrinemia ( serum gastrin 200-500 pg / ml ) who had mild to moderate iron deficiency anemia , but was asymptomatic . stool guaiac was positive and gastric acid secretion was almost 40-fold above normal . endoscopy showed multiple small gastric fundal ulcerations and severe gastritis . workup for zollinger--ellison syndrome was negative . changes in serum gastrin levels after secretin injection and after ingestion of a protein meal were compatible with those noted in adults with pseudo-zollinger--ellison syndrome . this child may be the first case of pseudo-zollinger--ellison syndrome under the age of 17 yr . 
improvement of proteinuria in a case of hepatitis b-associated glomerulonephritis after treatment with interferon . disappearance of proteinuria was observed in a patient with hepatitis b-associated chronic glomerulonephritis after treatment with leukocyte interferon . the decrease of proteinuria was preceded by the disappearance of both deoxyribonucleic acid polymerase activity and hepatitis b e antigen from the patient 's sera . 
villous adenoma of the duodenal papilla presenting as necrotizing pancreatitis in a patient with gardner 's syndrome . the majority of patients with gardner 's syndrome and familial polyposis coli develop duodenal adenomatous polyps . duodenal cancer sometimes arises in this setting , but nonmalignant problems from duodenal polyps have not been described . this report presents a patient with gardner 's syndrome who developed hemorrhagic pancreatitis and was found to have a villous adenoma encasing the pancreatic duct at the duodenal papilla . the case is important because it suggests that patients with polyposis coli may be at risk for significant nonmalignant problems from duodenal polyps , particularly if polyps exhibit villous histology and occur at the duodenal papilla . 
glycosaminoglycan , proteoglycan , and hepatic fibrosis [ editorial ] 
diagnosing colitis . biopsy is best [ editorial ] 
salicylate and diarrhea [ letter ] 
the presence of lymphangiectasia of the colon [ letter ] 
crohn 's disease , intravenous fat emulsion , and acute pancreatitis--a hypothesis [ letter ] 
rise in fecal fat not always steatorrhea [ letter ] 
linear discriminant analysis of ascitic fluid in hepatic cirrhosis [ letter ] 
two cheers for nsaids . 
establishment of an animal model of ovalbumin sensitised mouse to study protein induced enteropathy . the protein induced modifications of the small bowel mucosa from ovalbumin-sensitised mouse have been studied in organ culture . a decrease in gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase , alkaline phosphatase , lactase , sucrase , and glucoamylase activities was observed in the explants cultured in the presence of ovalbumin . in contrast , a large increase of those enzymatic activities was noted in the culture media , the overall effect observed being a net stimulation of the total enzymatic activities of the culture system . the enzymes accumulated in the particulate fraction of the medium ( brush border membrane fraction ) suggesting an increased turnover of membrane components by a process of shedding or microvesiculation . this model serves as a useful tool in evaluating the local response of the small bowel mucosa induced by a specific protein . 
serum cholesterol precursor sterols in coeliac disease : effects of gluten free diet and cholestyramine . enhanced biliary secretion and high faecal excretion of cholesterol are associated with increased cholesterol synthesis in coeliac disease . we have further investigated cholesterol synthesis in coeliac disease by determining the concentrations of faecal steroids and cholesterol precursors in serum , with and without a gluten free diet and while taking cholestyramine . the levels of unesterified methyl sterols and free and esterified lathosterol , but not those of squalene and desmosterol , were increased in proportion to the level of cholesterol synthesis , as measured with the sterol balance technique . serum esterified methyl sterol concentrations were also slightly higher but , unlike free methyl sterols or lathosterol , they were not significantly correlated with cholesterol synthesis . the gluten free diet decreased the level of cholesterol synthesis , and the levels of lathosterol and free methyl sterols . there was less decrease in the concentration of esterified methyl sterols , and an insignificant decrease in the concentrations of squalene and desmosterol . cholestyramine lowered the serum cholesterol concentration and increased that of serum free methyl sterols less in the patients than in the controls , and the increase was proportionate to increase of cholesterol elimination ( or synthesis ) . the increase of serum free methyl sterols per unit of the increase of cholesterol elimination ( or synthesis ) was three times higher in the bile acid malabsorption caused by cholestyramine than in the cholesterol malabsorption caused by gluten enteropathy . on the other hand , the decrease in the level of serum cholesterol relative to the increase in cholesterol elimination ( or synthesis ) was higher in cholesterol malabsorption due to coeliac disease than in cholestyramine induced bile acid malabsorption . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
effects of calcium and ph on the mucosal damage produced by deoxycholic acid in the rat colon . a single pass perfusion system was used in anaesthetised , restrained rats to examine the effect of changing the composition of the perfusion fluid on the damage caused to the colonic epithelium by deoxycholic acid . damage to the colonic surface was monitored with light microscopy , transmission and scanning electron microscopy and with measurements of deoxyribonucleic acid and carbohydrate in the perfusate . new scoring techniques for monitoring alterations in surface epithelium of light microscopy sections were used . the damaging effect of 5 mm deoxycholic acid to the colonic epithelium is inhibited by lowering the ph of the perfusion fluid from 7.9 to 5.5 , or by increasing the calcium concentration from 0 to 4 mm . this inhibition is shown to be because of a decreased amount of bile acid in solution . thus it is not the total concentration of deoxycholic acid in the colon that is responsible for the colonic damage , but the concentration in solution . although extrapolation to the human situation must be made with caution , the concentration of bile acid in solution in the faecal water may be more relevant to colonic mucosal damage than total bile acid concentration . 
changes in the gastric mucosa of the mouse associated with long lasting unsurmountable histamine h2 blockade . the oral administration of loxtidine to mice at doses of 600 , 250 , and 50 mg / kg / day for 746 days produced carcinoid tumours of the gastric fundus . the fundic mucosa also showed marked atypical hyperplasia with changes in foveolar cells similar to those seen in early incomplete metaplasia . these effects may be related to the prolonged achlorhydria produced by this potent unsurmountable histamine h2 receptor antagonist . 
14c triolein breath test : a routine test in the gastroenterology clinic ? the absorption of 14c triolein in a standard fat meal was measured in 60 controls and 66 patients with gastrointestinal disorders by 14co2 breath sampling . a reference range based upon cumulative eight hour values of the controls was independent of height , weight , and sex . the range was of log normal distribution and declined with age ( p less than 0.05 ) . acceptable ' within-day ' and ' between-day ' reproducibility was found . all patients tested with untreated coeliac disease , pancreatic insufficiency and most with symptomatic small intestinal crohn 's disease had subnormal values . twenty per cent of those with irritable bowel syndrome had subnormal values . patients with ulcerative colitis were all normal . the reagents used and the breath samples after collection were stable . in our experience the 14c triolein test is simple , inexpensive , and helpful in the detection of diseases associated with fat malabsorption . it is of value in monitoring the response to treatment of individual patients with coeliac disease . 
mycobacterial aetiology of crohn 's disease : serologic study using common mycobacterial antigens and a species-specific glycolipid antigen from mycobacterium paratuberculosis . crohn 's disease is a granulomatous form of enteritis superficially similar to johne 's disease ( paratuberculosis ) of ruminants . recently , a mycobacterium sp closely related to mycobacterium paratuberculosis was cultured from tissues of patients with crohn 's disease suggesting that m paratuberculosis may be the aetiologic agent in some cases . in addition , greater seroreactivity to m paratuberculosis has been reported in patients with crohn 's disease . in the present study , we have evaluated the serum antibody response to disrupted m paratuberculosis using elisa and serum specimens from 33 people with crohn 's disease , 21 with ulcerative colitis , and 12 non-inflammatory bowel disease controls . we failed to find a consistent igg , igm , or iga antibody response to mycobacterium paratuberculosis . the results indicate that , as in bovine paratuberculosis , serum seroreactivity is not a reliable tool for examining the relationship between human intestinal disease and mycobacteria . 
serum immunoreactive cationic trypsinogen : a useful indicator of severe exocrine dysfunction in the paediatric patient without cystic fibrosis . we evaluated serum cationic trypsinogen as a marker of exocrine pancreatic function in children without cystic fibrosis . the ability of this test to determine steatorrhoea of pancreatic origin , and its relationship to a wide range of exocrine pancreatic function were assessed . serum trypsinogen was measured in 32 children with steatorrhoea , 10 with pancreatic and 22 with non-pancreatic causes . in patients with pancreatic steatorrhoea , serum cationic trypsinogen was 4.9 + / - 4.9 micrograms / l ( mean + / - sd ) , significantly below values in patients with non-pancreatic steatorrhoea ( 47.0 + / - 22.1 micrograms / l , p less than 0.001 ) and 50 control subjects ( 31.4 + / - 7.4 micrograms / l , p less than 0.001 ) . serum cationic trypsinogen values in patients with pancreatic steatorrhoea all fell below the lower limit of our control range and below all values for patients with non-pancreatic steatorrhoea . serum cationic trypsinogen was also evaluated against pancreatic trypsin output in 47 patients ( range 0.2-17.0 yr who underwent a hormonal pancreatic stimulation test . in 17 patients , serum cationic trypsinogen was low ( less than -2sd or less than 16.6 micrograms / l ) , and associated with greatly impaired pancreatic trypsin output , ranging from 0-8 % of mean normal trypsin output . five of these 17 patients did not have steatorrhoea . in 30 patients with normal or raised serum cationic trypsinogen ( greater than or equal to 16.6 micrograms / l ) , pancreatic trypsin output ranged from 15-183 % of mean normal values . in conclusion , low serum cationic trypsinogen suggests severely impaired exocrine pancreatic function , with sensitivity extending above the steatorrhoeic threshold . in the presence of steatorrhoea , low serum cationic trypsinogen indicates a pancreatic aetiology . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
smoking and mortality from peptic ulcer in the united kingdom . the present paper compares the temporal changes of cigarette consumption with those of peptic ulcer mortality in the united kingdom . cumulative cigarette consumption increased in men born between 1845 and 1915 and remained constant or decreased in all subsequent generations . it increased in women born between 1835 and 1955. in contrast , both male and female mortality from gastric and duodenal ulcer were highest in those born around 1875-1885 . from the lack of coincidence in the trends of peptic ulcer mortality and cumulative cigarette consumption it is concluded that changing smoking habits were not responsible for the birth cohort patterns of the death rates from gastric and duodenal ulcer . 
primary biliary cirrhosis in men . to determine whether primary biliary cirrhosis differed in men and women we reviewed the presenting features and clinical course of 39 men and 191 women with primary biliary cirrhosis followed at this unit between 1970 and 1984. age and severity of disease at time of diagnosis were similar in both groups . pruritus was significantly less common in men than in women both at diagnosis and throughout the period of follow up ( p less than 0.01 ) . the difference in incidence of pruritus at diagnosis was most evident when the male group were compared with a group of premenopausal women , an observation which is consistent with involvement of sex steroid metabolism in the origin of pruritus . skin pigmentation was also less marked in men at diagnosis ( p less than 0.05 ) . autoimmune associated conditions , especially sicca syndrome , were more common in women . survival was similar among men and women although hepatoma developed significantly more frequently in male patients ( p less than 0.01 ) . 
wilson 's disease : clinical presentation and use of prognostic index . as the results of treatment in wilson 's disease are so dependent on the stage at which penicillamine therapy is started , the antecedent history in 34 patients with wilson 's disease was analysed with particular respect to the earliest manifestations of the disease . lethargy and anorexia ( 70 % ) jaundice ( 56 % ) and abdominal pain ( 48 % ) were the commonest symptoms and less common were intellectual deterioration ( 22 % ) and recurrent epistaxes ( 22 % ) . the duration of symptoms before diagnosis ranged from five days to three years ( mean 10.5 months ) and in only five of the patients was the diagnosis established before referral . analysis of the physical signs at presentation showed hepatomegaly ( 81 % ) and splenomegaly ( 70 % ) to be common and the only signs which were significantly more common in the 13 fatal cases were jaundice and ascites . in three of these and in one other patient who survived the clinical course was exceptionally severe and was indistinguishable from fulminant hepatic failure . based on the severity of abnormality of serum aspartate aminotransferase , bilirubin , and prothrombin time on admission a prognostic index was derived which enabled complete separation of fatal and nonfatal cases and when subsequently used in a further nine index cases correctly predicted the outcome . two further cases found to have indices in the fatal category did well after liver transplantation , which needs to be considered as soon as the diagnosis is established in cases with such severe liver damage . 
fatal hepatitis associated with diclofenac . non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents ( nsaids ) are a well recognised cause of hepatotoxicity . diclofenac , a relatively new nsaid , was first introduced into the uk in 1979. five cases of hepatitis have recently been reported , principally in the french literature . we report the first fulminant case of hepatitis in the english literature in a patient taking diclofenac and indomethacin . 
collagenous colitis associated with small intestinal villous atrophy . two patients diagnosed as having small intestinal hyperplastic villous atrophy and being treated with a gluten free diet were investigated because of persistent watery diarrhoea . both were found to have collagenous colitis . previous reports of this condition have emphasised the presence of normal small intestinal mucosal architecture and the association of collagenous colitis with intestinal villous atrophy has not previously been reported . both cases responded to oral steroid therapy , but not to other previously recommended treatment regimens . 
measurement of intraepithelial lymphocytes [ letter ] 
penile ulceration in crohn 's disease [ letter ] 
use of alpha-tocopherylquinone in ulcerative colitis [ letter ] 
topics and controversies in enteral nutrition . introduction . 
effects of metoclopramide and domperidone on azygos venous blood flow in patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension . the effects of pharmacological manipulation of the lower esophageal sphincter pressure on the esophageal circulation in patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension were investigated in 33 patients by measuring the azygos venous blood flow , which is an index of blood flow through esophageal varices and periesophageal collaterals draining into the azygos venous system . measurements were performed in baseline conditions and after the blind administration of metoclopramide ( 20 mg i.v. ) ( 12 patients ) , domperidone ( 10 mg i.v. ) ( 12 patients ) and placebo ( 9 patients ) . both metoclopramide and domperidone caused a significant reduction of azygos blood flow , that decreased by 11.5 % ( p less than 0.01 ) and 15.6 % ( p less than 0.02 ) respectively , while no change was observed in patients receiving placebo ( +1.4 % , not statistically significant ) . reduction of azygos blood flow represents a selective effect of metoclopramide and domperidone on the esophageal circulation , since portal pressure , hepatic blood flow , cardiac output , heart rate and arterial blood pressure were unchanged by the administration of metoclopramide , domperidone or placebo . these results indicate that the administration of drugs that increase the lower esophageal sphincter pressure may reduce the inflow of blood into the esophageal varices in cirrhotic patients with portal hypertension . 
correction of vitamin e deficiency in children with chronic cholestasis . ii . effect on gastrointestinal and hepatic function . although secondary vitamin e deficiency causes a reversible neurologic disorder in children with chronic cholestasis , the effect of this deficiency state on other organ systems is unknown . we studied the effects of vitamin e therapy on selected gastrointestinal and hepatic functions in five children with chronic cholestasis and well-documented biochemical and neurologic evidence of vitamin e deficiency . after 2 to 3 years of oral or parenteral vitamin e therapy , there was no improvement in fecal fat losses , severity of vitamin e malabsorption ( as measured by an oral vitamin e tolerance test ) or total serum fatty acid concentrations . serial analyses of liver function blood tests demonstrated a marked decline in fasting serum cholylglycine concentrations during 18 to 31 months of vitamin e therapy , while other liver function tests showed no consistent changes . we conclude that vitamin e deficiency does not appear to alter intestinal absorption of fat or vitamin e ; however , vitamin e deficiency may further impair already compromised hepatic function during pathologic conditions such as cholestasis . 
medium-chain and long-chain acyl coa dehydrogenase deficiency : clinical , pathologic and ultrastructural differentiation from reye 's syndrome . the clinical and pathologic findings in 12 patients with medium-chain acyl coa dehydrogenase deficiency and three patients with long-chain acyl coa dehydrogenase deficiency are summarized . although these inborn errors of intramitochondrial beta-oxidation of fatty acids present with similar findings to reye 's syndrome , there are clinical , laboratory and hepatic histologic differences . younger age at presentation , history of unexplained sibling death , a previous episode of lethargy , hypoglycemia or acidosis precipitated by fasting stress and only mildly elevated serum transaminases with normal or only mildly prolonged prothrombin time may all suggest an acyl coa dehydrogenase deficiency . long-chain acyl coa dehydrogenase deficiency is differentiated from medium-chain acyl coa dehydrogenase deficiency by younger age at presentation , more profound cardiorespiratory depression , evidence of cardiomyopathy , and sequelae of muscle weakness , hypotonia and developmental delay . definitive diagnosis is made by assay of medium-chain or long-chain enzyme activity in cultured skin fibroblasts or in leukocytes . hepatic light microscopic alterations are essentially limited to steatosis , which may be either macro- or microvesicular . the cases with microvesicular steatosis can be differentiated morphologically from reye 's syndrome by electron microscopy , showing the absence of the mitochondrial changes characteristic of reye . 's four of seven cases of acyl coa dehydrogenase deficiency showed some variations from normal in the appearance of the hepatocyte mitochondria . the relationship of these variations to the basic metabolic defect ( s ) remains to be determined . 
positive antimitochondrial antibody but normal alkaline phosphatase : is this primary biliary cirrhosis ? twenty-nine patients with a positive antimitochondrial antibody titer greater than or equal to 1 / 40 , who were detected during screening for other autoimmune disease , are described who had a normal serum bilirubin , alkaline phosphatase and transaminase and who had no symptoms of liver disease at presentation . liver biopsies in 12 of the 29 fulfilled diagnostic criteria for primary biliary cirrhosis ; a further 12 were consistent with primary biliary cirrhosis , but only 2 were normal . there was a high incidence of other autoantibodies and autoimmune diseases , especially thyroid antibodies and disorders . sixteen of these patients have been followed for over 4 years since diagnosis ( mean = 6 years , range = 4 to 9 years ) and for a mean of 8.7 years since initial detection of the antimitochondrial antibody ( range = 4 to 13 ) . five of 16 developed symptoms suggestive of primary biliary cirrhosis , and 11 of 16 developed elevation of alkaline phosphatase . the antimitochondrial antibody activity in these patients was in the same igg subclasses ( predominantly igg1 and igg3 ) as that seen in a group of 23 patients with clinically , biochemically and histologically advanced primary biliary cirrhosis . all showed the same abnormalities on quantitative estimation of the total igg subclasses in serum ; relative excess of igg3 and , to a lesser extent , igg2 was exhibited . it is concluded that , in this study , the finding of an antimitochondrial antibody titer greater than or equal to 1 / 40 is strongly suggestive of primary biliary cirrhosis even in the absence of symptoms and the presence of a normal alkaline phosphatase . 
specific histologic features of santa marta hepatitis : a severe form of hepatitis delta-virus infection in northern south america . stimulated by observations in an outbreak of hepatitis delta-virus infection among yucpa indians in venezuela , in which unusual histologic features were found , we studied 100 cases of fatal hepatitis from colombia , south america , which had been obtained by autopsy or viscerotomy . these cases were considered to be " santa marta hepatitis , " or " hepatitis of the sierra nevada de santa marta , " which has been observed in this region for more than 40 years . of the 100 cases , 19 had a variety of histologic lesions or were normal , and hepatitis delta-virus antigen was not demonstrated immunocytochemically in any of them . by contrast , 81 cases had a characteristic histologic picture with intense microvesicular steatosis associated with conspicuous eosinophilic necrosis of the hepatocytes , which apparently were sluggishly removed by cytolysis . hepatitis delta-virus antigen was detected in 70 % of the 81 cases , and the absence of detection of this antigen was often associated with poor tissue preservation and more extensive hepatocyte necrosis . a smaller percentage of patients had hepatitis b virus antigens detectable in liver tissue . the characteristic lesion in these 81 cases could be distinguished from other causes of microvesicular steatosis by the extensive eosinophilic necrosis . other variable accompanying features included intraacinar , mainly macrophagic , scavenger cell inflammation , intense portal inflammation , a parenchymal regeneration , and ductular and arteriolar proliferation . santa marta hepatitis as a severe form of hepatitis delta-virus infection differs markedly from fulminant delta-hepatitis in europe and the united states in which the microsteatosis with marked eosinophilic degeneration is not found . the causes for these differences are unknown but may relate to nutritional factors or environmental toxins . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
epidemiologic aspects of santa marta hepatitis over a 40-year period . " santa marta " hepatitis has been recognized as an unusual type of severe hepatitis occurring in northern colombia since 1930. liver specimens from a historic viscerotomy series , used by gast-galvis to identify cases and describe epidemiologic features of this disease , were available for review and histopathologic staining for delta-virus . of 86 liver specimens examined from cases of fulminant santa marta hepatitis , 81 showed a distinct histopathologic picture , in various stages of progression , with features of eosinophilic necrosis , microvesicular fat infiltration of the liver parenchyma and morula cells ; 69 % were positive for delta-antigen by immunoperoxidase staining . this disease occurred predominantly in several small towns within 50 km of santa marta , with mortality reaching 1.25 per 1 , 000 inhabitants per year during the 1940 . 's children under age 15 were most commonly affected and males affected twice as frequently as females . liver specimens obtained from children , or within 15 hr of death , or which showed early histologic stages of disease were most likely to be positive for delta-antigen . this and the accompanying study confirm the existence of a distinct type of fulminant hepatitis in colombia for over 50 years . the epidemiologic and histopathologic features are comparable to severe hepatitis in venezuela indians and in the amazon basin of brazil , suggesting that all are caused by delta-superinfection of hepatitis b virus carriers . 
type d hepatitis : the clinical significance of hepatitis d virus rna in serum as detected by a hybridization-based assay . hepatitis d virus is a defective human pathogen that requires hepatitis b virus for its replication . a hybridization-based assay for the 1.75 kb rna genome of hepatitis d virus was developed using as probe a radiolabeled transcript of a cloned cdna fragment ( pkd3 hepatitis d virus dna ) . sera from 120 chronic carriers of hbsag with confirmed hepatitis d virus infection were analyzed for the presence of hepatitis d virus rna . serum hepatitis d virus rna was detected in 43 of 74 ( 58 % ) patients with chronic liver disease ; some patients were positive for hepatitis d virus rna in multiple samples over a period of several years . serum hepatitis d virus rna was present in 17 of 28 ( 61 % ) patients during the acute phase of clinical hepatitis and was not detected after recovery from acute disease or in 18 asymptomatic chronic hbsag carriers with antibody to hepatitis d virus . the presence of hepatitis d virus rna correlated with other known markers of active hepatitis d virus replication ; all chronic active liver disease patients with serum hepatitis d virus rna were positive for antihepatitis d antigen igm , and 34 of 37 ( 92 % ) had hepatitis d antigen in their liver biopsy specimens . the assay for hepatitis d virus rna provides a direct and noninvasive method for the detection of hepatitis d virus in serum and will be useful in the study of the natural history of type d hepatitis , the identification of chronic hepatitis d virus carriers likely to transmit hepatitis d virus and the selection and monitoring of patients for potential antiviral therapy . 
a histological study of hepatitis delta virus liver disease . the histopathology of hepatitis delta virus disease was studied in carriers of hbsag with chronic hepatitis delta antigen-positive hepatitis and in serial biopsies of patients with acute hepatitis delta virus hepatitis that progressed to chronicity . there was no histologic feature distinctive of hepatitis delta virus from other types of viral hepatitis . biopsy specimens of patients with chronic disease exhibited portal and periportal inflammation with piecemeal necrosis , conforming to a picture of aggressive hepatitis often accompanied by cirrhosis . characteristic was a marked intralobular infiltration by mononuclear cells and a degenerative eosinophilic change of the hepatocytic cytoplasms conducive to the formation of acidophilic bodies . liver specimens from patients with hepatitis delta virus hepatitis exhibited aspects of focal , confluent and bridging necrosis . the disease progressed to chronicity irrespective of the original histological features . the expression of intrahepatic hepatitis delta antigen was reduced in the phase of the acute hepatitis but increased in parallel with the development of chronic active liver disease . in late-stage cirrhosis , expression of hepatitis delta antigen was usually low . 
diagnostic usefulness of testing for anti-hbc igm in acute hepatitis b . numerous tests to detect anti-hbc igm have been developed and shown to have different degrees of sensitivity and specificity . one of these assays , corzyme-m ( abbott laboratories , north chicago , ill . ) , recently became commercially available . the present study was undertaken to evaluate the clinical utility of this anti-hbc igm test in establishing the diagnosis of acute hepatitis b using sera from a group of 42 prospectively followed individuals who had been exposed to hepatitis b virus . the corzyme-m test was highly sensitive in detecting recent hepatitis b virus infection . all 30 patients with symptomatic and 12 with asymptomatic acute hepatitis b virus infection developed anti-hbc igm . however , the timing of sample testing relative to onset of symptoms in symptomatic patients was important , inasmuch as 2 of 23 patients were negative for anti-hbc igm early in the symptomatic period , although all were hbsag positive . the duration of anti-hbc igm positivity after acute infection was variable , ranging from 2 to 134 weeks . in 14 % of patients , anti-hbc igm remained detectable for more than 1 year . from the data , recommendations are given regarding the usefulness of anti-hbc igm testing in the diagnosis of acute hepatitis b virus infection . 
protective effects of fibronectin in galactosamine-induced liver failure in rats . the effects of supplementation with fibronectin on liver damage and survival in rats with galactosamine-induced liver failure were studied . in rats with acute liver failure induced by a low dose of galactosamine , supplementation with purified plasma fibronectin at 3 hr after the administration of galactosamine provided significant increase of plasma fibronectin levels and augmentation of reticuloendothelial system function at 4 hr , significantly higher plasma fibronectin levels and significant protection of liver damage with shorter prothrombin times , lower ast and less histological damage at 48 hr as compared to control animals . plasma fibronectin levels were inversely correlated with both plasma prothrombin times and ast . fibronectin supplementation at 6 hr also resulted in the significant decrease of liver damage at 48 hr as evaluated histologically . when rats with liver failure , induced by a high dose of galactosamine , were supplemented with fibronectin at 3 hr , the survival rate was significantly higher than that of control rats . the results indicate that fibronectin supplementation in the early stages of acute liver failure could reduce liver damage and improve the survival of rats with galactosamine-induced liver failure . 
brainstem auditory evoked potentials in hepatic encephalopathy . brainstem auditory evoked potentials were obtained from 30 patients primarily with viral hepatitis to determine the functional status of the brainstem in hepatic encephalopathy . the patients were divided into four groups : group 1 with compensated hepatic diseases ; group 2 with hepatic failure but no hepatic encephalopathy ; group 3 with grade 1 or 2 hepatic encephalopathy , and group 4 with grade 3 or 4 hepatic encephalopathy . the brainstem auditory evoked potential central conduction times ( i-v interval ) of four patient groups were not significantly different from that of the age-matched control group . the present data suggest that the brainstem auditory pathways remain undisturbed in hepatic encephalopathy . 
regulation of low density lipoprotein receptor activity in primary cultures of human hepatocytes by serum lipoproteins . the low density lipoprotein receptor activity was measured in primary cultures of human hepatocytes . the receptor-mediated association and degradation of low density lipoprotein increased gradually up to 140 and 190 % , respectively , upon incubation of the cells with increasing amounts of whole serum ( up to 100 % ) . preincubation of the cells with low density lipoprotein resulted in a weak downregulation of the receptor-mediated association of low density lipoprotein ( only 35 % reduction at 100 micrograms low density lipoprotein per ml ) . however , preincubation with high density lipoproteins with density between 1.16 and 1.20 gm per ml ( heavy high density lipoprotein ) resulted in a more than 2-fold stimulation of the receptor-mediated association of low density lipoprotein . this heavy high density lipoprotein-mediated stimulation could not be antagonized by a simultaneous addition of low density lipoprotein during that preincubation . we conclude that , in primary cultures of human hepatocytes , the downregulation of the low density lipoprotein receptor activity by low density lipoprotein is weak and completely overruled by heavy high density lipoprotein . if these results for human hepatocytes in vitro hold true for hepatocytes in vivo , our results might explain why in vivo liver cells still display low density lipoprotein receptor activity notwithstanding the exposure of these cells to physiological concentrations of low density lipoprotein . 
induction of cystine transport activity in isolated rat hepatocytes by sulfobromophthalein and other electrophilic agents . the uptake of cystine in isolated rat hepatocytes was enhanced after incubation of the cells with sulfobromophthalein . the enhancement was time- and dose-dependent , with a lag of about 6 hr , and an approximately 4-fold increase in the activity occurred after 24 hr with 0.2 mm sulfobromophthalein . actinomycin d or cycloheximide completely blocked the time-related increase in the uptake . the enhanced activity of cystine uptake was almost entirely na+-independent and inhibited by some anionic amino acids , such as glutamate . the uptake of glutamate was also enhanced by sulfobromophthalein . it is concluded that sulfobromophthalein induces the activity of the na+-independent , anionic amino acid transport system ( system x-c ) which mediates the transport of cystine . some other electrophilic agents also enhanced the cystine uptake . the glutathione level of hepatocytes was rapidly reduced by sulfobromophthalein to about 10 % of the control level at 6 hr , but at 12 hr it began to rise . it seems likely that this restoration resulted from the induced activity of the cystine uptake because inhibitors of the cystine uptake blocked the restoration and because the uptake of other sulfur amino acids was not enhanced significantly by sulfobromophthalein . system x-c may thus participate in the detoxication of electrophilic agents in hepatocytes . 
effect of growth hormone on alcohol dehydrogenase activity in hepatocyte culture . the effect of growth hormone on the activity of alcohol dehydrogenase was determined in hepatocyte culture from normal and hypophysectomized male rats . alcohol dehydrogenase activity was highest in hepatocytes harvested from hypophysectomized rats . the enzyme activity remained stable in hepatocytes harvested from normal rats during 2 to 6 days of culture but declined steadily in hepatocytes cultured from hypophysectomized rats . the combination of growth hormone ( 1 microgram per ml ) and corticosterone ( 1 microm ) increased alcohol dehydrogenase activity in hepatocytes from normal rats , while neither hormone alone had an effect . corticosterone ( 1 microm ) prevented the decline of the enzyme activity in hepatocytes from hypophysectomized rats , and the combination of growth hormone ( 1 microgram per ml ) and corticosterone ( 1 microm ) resulted in a further increase in enzyme activity . the increases in alcohol dehydrogenase , due to the exposure of the hepatocytes to the combination of growth hormone and corticosterone , were associated with increases in the rate of ethanol elimination . these observations indicate that growth hormone enhances liver alcohol dehydrogenase activity and ethanol elimination , and that this effect is dependent on the permissive influence of corticosterone . 
recent progress in understanding cholesterol crystal nucleation as a precursor to human gallstone formation . 
fatty acids and reye 's syndrome [ editorial ] 
fibronectin and liver disease [ editorial ] 
the american liver foundation celebrates 10 years of achievement by establishing the liver scholar award [ editorial ] 
ascitic fluid " humoral tests of malignancy " [ letter ] 
prognostic significance of serum bile acids in cirrhosis [ letter ] 
cash flow more stable during third-quarter ' 86. 
profitability worsens while financials level . 
states predict slim operating margins , closures . 
what the cpi does n't say about medical costs . 
il hospitals ' liability costs increase 103 % . 
health care ad exposure picks up . 
endresen adds psychology to market research . 
more changes predicted for managed care . 
labor union plays hardball with hmo . 
what 's driving upcoming mergers ? 
indigent care seen as states ' top priority for ' 87. 
tax status of nonprofit ventures challenged [ interview by jeffrey finn ] 
watchful eyes to follow physicians through ' 87. 
room to expand home care business in 1987. 
the future of ur : it 's not all in the hospital . 
purchasing to spearhead marketing to physicians . 
iv supply market forecasted by f & s . 
multis change names to match their strategies . 
premier 's chief insists on slow growth , fast action . 
private firms ' personnel trends warrant mimicry . 
public supports aids education , research . 
need a new satellite facility ? try a restaurant . 
ceos neglect materials cost cutting : survey . 
management groups target segmented markets . 
physician-held reit pros and cons . 
local area networks increase 500 % in 1986. 
nonhospital groups to hold purse strings . 
ensuring access to essential health care . 
white house , hhs seek more cuts in gme payments . 
fte increase does n't signal productivity drop . 
no break in malpractice insurance premiums . 
new law to spur risky insurance ventures . 
vaccine plan cuts provider liability . 
segment marketing : less costly , more efficient . 
marketing image : is it worth it ? 
ge offers promo of its products for hospital use . 
majority of ppas use direct sales . 
hospitals to feel the heat as plans handle change . 
plans interested in wellness for elderly enrollees . 
physician data base spurs legal , ethical debate . 
public gains access to peer review data . 
illinois bell contracting : risky business ? 
al businesses take fresh approach to indigent care . 
sci-fi future ? bell labs thinks so . 
think phones : think profits . 
hospitals , physicians link up . 
hospitals talk to themselves : internal communications . 
telephone industry blooms . 
nonphysician privileges become an issue--again . 
ama house tries to nip regulation . 
expanded fahs membership increases input [ interview by teri shahoda ] 
home care payer mix , referrals need expansion . 
thromboxane synthesis and blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats . the present study examines effects of administration of oky 046 , an inhibitor of thromboxane synthesis , for 100 days on systemic blood pressure and renal function in spontaneously hypertensive rats and in normotensive control rats . untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats had higher values for thromboxane excretion in the urine and higher values for blood pressure than did normotensive control rats . administration of oky 046 decreased systolic and mean arterial blood pressure and urinary excretion of thromboxane and protein in spontaneously hypertensive rats . administration of oky 046 decreased thromboxane excretion in the urine of normotensive control rats but had no effect on blood pressure or protein excretion . renal function , as assessed by the clearances of inulin and p-aminohippuric acid , was greater in spontaneously hypertensive rats treated with oky 046 than in those receiving vehicle alone . in normotensive control rats , oky 046 administration did not affect renal function . these results suggest that increased renal synthesis of thromboxane may play a role in the pathogenesis of the elevated blood pressure of spontaneously hypertensive rats . 
regulation of primate angiotensin ii receptors during altered sodium intake . in the rat , angiotensin ii receptors of the adrenal glomerulosa and smooth muscle undergo reciprocal regulatory changes that parallel the changes in target cell sensitivity to angiotensin ii during altered sodium intake . in primates , the relative importance of angiotensin ii receptor regulation during sodium-induced changes in angiotensin ii sensitivity is not clear . to evaluate the role of angiotensin ii receptor regulation in the primate , we analyzed the changes in angiotensin ii receptors of adrenal and bladder membrane-rich particles after 4 to 6 days of high or low sodium intake in the monkey ( macaca fascicularis ) . consistent with the decreased pressor response to angiotensin ii , smooth muscle angiotensin ii receptors were fewer in sodium-restricted monkeys ( 93 + / - 17 fmol / mg ) than in sodium-loaded monkeys ( 171 + / - 6 fmol / mg ) . however , in contrast to the rat , changes in zona glomerulosa angiotensin ii receptors in monkey adrenal were similar to those in smooth muscle , decreasing with sodium restriction and increasing with sodium loading ( 344 + / - 64 and 660 + / - 68 fmol / mg , respectively ) . there was no change in angiotensin ii receptor affinity in either smooth muscle or adrenal particles during altered sodium intake . concomitant with the decrease in adrenal angiotensin ii receptors , 18-hydroxylase activity was increased twofold in adrenal mitochondria from sodium-restricted monkeys ( 74 + / - 8 fmol / mg / min ) compared with sodium-loaded animals ( 28 + / - 11 fmol / mg / min ) . the increased sensitivity of the primate adrenal to angiotensin ii despite a fall in angiotensin ii receptors indicates that full activation of steroidogenesis by angiotensin ii can be maintained with partial receptor occupancy . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
effects of angiotensin inhibition and renal denervation in two-kidney , one clip hypertensive rats . neural and angiotensin-mediated influences that alter hemodynamic and excretory behavior of the nonclipped kidney of two-kidney , one clip hypertensive rats were assessed by sequential acute surgical denervation of the nonclipped kidney and intravenous infusion of converting enzyme inhibitor ( sq 20881 ) , 3 mg / kg x hr . normal and two-kidney , one clip hypertensive rats ( 0.2-mm silver clip on the right renal artery 3-4 weeks before study ) were prepared to allow study of each kidney . mean arterial blood pressure of two-kidney , one clip hypertensive rats fell significantly from control values of 149 + / - 6 to 135 + / - 6 mm hg after denervation of the nonclipped kidney . despite this decrease in arterial pressure , the nonclipped kidney exhibited significant increases in glomerular filtration rate ( from 1.00 + / - 0.08 to 1.24 + / - 0.08 ml / min ) , sodium excretion ( from 88 + / - 39 to 777 + / - 207 neq / min ) , fractional sodium excretion ( from 0.06 + / - 0.02 to 0.54 + / - 0.14 % ) , and urine flow rate ( from 3.7 + / - 0.5 to 8.2 + / - 1.1 microliter / min ) . a significant decrease in glomerular filtration rate ( from 1.12 + / - 0.07 to 0.85 + / - 0.08 ml / min ) with no change in excretory function was observed for the clipped kidney following denervation of the nonclipped kidney . intravenous addition of converting enzyme inhibitor significantly increased renal blood flow ( from 7.0 + / - 1.3 to 10.6 + / - 1.5 ml / min ) and sodium excretion ( from 777 + / - 207 to 1384 + / - 425 neq / min ) for the nonclipped kidney ; blood pressure decreased from 135 + / - 6 to 123 + / - 4 mm hg , and renal vascular resistance decreased significantly ( from 22 + / - 3 to 13 + / - 2 mm hg x min / ml ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
changes in rat ventricular isomyosins with regression of cardiac hypertrophy . the changes in ventricular isomyosin composition and ca2+-activated atpase activity occurring with regression of both hypertension and cardiac hypertrophy were investigated by using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis under nondenaturing conditions , heavy chain peptide mapping , and an enzymatic assay . eight control male wistar rats and 14 two-kidney , one clip ( goldblatt ii ) hypertensive rats were studied from the fifth week of age . at 10 weeks of age , five goldblatt ii rats and four normotensive controls were killed . five other goldblatt ii rats underwent nephrectomy of the ischemic kidney , which resulted in subsequent normalization of blood pressure . the remaining four control , four goldblatt ii rats , and five nephrectomized rats were killed at 15 weeks of age . both the 10- and 15-week-old hypertensive rats had a significantly higher ( p less than 0.001 ) biventricular weight to body weight ratio than the age-matched controls ( 3.84 + / - 0.76 x 10 ( -2 ) vs 2.75 + / - 0.25 x 10 ( -2 ) ; 5.93 + / - 2.26 x 10 ( -2 ) vs 2.65 + / - 0.17 x 10 ( -2 ] . the 15-week-old nephrectomized rats had a biventricular weight to body weight ratio ( 2.90 + / - 0.25 x 10 ( -2 ] close to that of age-matched controls and significantly lower ( p less than 0.05 ) than that of age-matched hypertensive rats . in both the 10- and 15-week-old hypertensive rats left ventricular myosin ca2+-activated atpase activity was significantly lower ( p less than 0.001 ) than in the age-matched controls ( 0.44 + / - 0.03 vs 0.59 + / - 0.06 ; 0.24 + / - 0.05 vs 0.48 + / - 0.05 ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
comparison of 1-hour and 24-hour blood pressure recordings in central or peripheral baroreceptor-denervated rats . we compared the mean arterial pressure and heart rate activity of conscious , unrestrained rats during 1-hour and 24-hour continuous recording sessions , 3 to 4 weeks after either sinoartic denervation , placement of electrolytic lesions in the nucleus tractus solitarii , or sham operations . sinoaortic denervation and nucleus tractus solitarii lesions both eliminated the reflex bradycardia to a phenylephrine-induced pressor response . no difference was found in the average level and lability of the mean arterial pressure between 1-hour and 24-hour recordings for any group . no elevation in the average mean arterial pressure of rats with nucleus tractus solitarii lesions was observed , although a mild hypertension was noted in half the sinoarotic-denervated rats , while the other half were normotensive . group differences were not found for heart rate or heart rate variability ; however , 24-hour recordings yielded significantly higher values than 1-hour recordings for all groups . both medullary lesions and sinoaortic denervation significantly increased the lability of the mean arterial pressure , but the magnitude of the increase was significantly greater in the rats with lesions . the lability of the mean arterial pressure in sinoaortic-denervated rats depended largely on movement-related depressor responses that produced a negative skew in the frequency distribution of their mean arterial pressure . rats with nucleus tractus solitarii lesions exhibited both pressor and depressor responses that resulted in pressure distributions that had a slight positive skew similar to that displayed by control rats . it is concluded that short-term continuous recordings of mean arterial pressure and heart rate accurately estimate the altered cardiovascular activity of baroreceptor-denervated rats . the differences in the cardiovascular responses of central and peripheral baroreceptor-denervated rats are believed to be due to the more extensive destruction by nucleus tractus solitarii lesions of central neurons and pathways involved in cardiovascular regulation . 
management of hypertension in high school students by using new salt titrator tape . in a blood pressure screening program involving 6589 high school students , 180 male ( 4.7 % ) and 17 female ( 0.6 % ) students were identified as borderline hypertensive . the 174 hypertensive male adolescents studied further showed pathophysiological features such as a significantly higher frequency of obesity , higher 24-hour urinary sodium excretion , higher hematocrit value , higher sodium and lower potassium concentration in red blood cells , and higher ouabain-sensitive sodium efflux compared with the control group ( 231 male students ; p less than 0.05 ) . when used alone , the ordinary 10-week period of counseling about a low salt diet failed to significantly reduce the blood pressure of hypertensive students . however , when education and counseling efforts were combined with self-monitoring of salt ( chloride ) excretion in overnight urine samples using a new salt titrator tape developed in our laboratory , 24-hour urinary sodium excretion , weight , and blood pressure decreased significantly over 10 weeks ( mean reduction : 52 meq / day for 24-hour urinary sodium excretion , 1.7 kg for weight , 12 / 7 mm hg for blood pressure ) . these results indicate that blood pressure of borderline hypertensive adolescents could be effectively reduced with this nonpharmacological method of dietary education . such systematic management might be of importance for the prevention of essential hypertension . 
inaccuracy in the home use of automated blood pressure cuffs by hypertensive patients being treated with beta-blockers [ letter ] 
effect of cold pressor test-induced stress on leukocyte sodium transport and norepinephrine . the effects of stress on leukocyte membrane sodium efflux rate constant and plasma norepinephrine levels were studied before and during cold pressor test in normotensive subjects with and without a family history of hypertension . after 20 minutes of supine rest , no significant differences in total , ouabain-resistant or ouabain-sensitive sodium efflux rate constants were apparent between the two groups . in normotensive subjects with no family history , there was no significant change in any efflux rate constant during cold pressor test , although there was a highly significant negative correlation between change in total efflux rate constant and change in norepinephrine levels ( r = -0.82 , p less than 0.01 , n = 12 ) . during cold pressor test in subjects with a family history of hypertension , there was a significant rise in the ouabain-resistant efflux rate constant ( 1.5 + / - 0.1 vs 1.0 + / - 0.1 hr-1 ; p less than 0.01 , n = 10 ) ; this level was also significantly higher than that in control subjects ( p less than 0.002 ) . in this group , the ouabain-sensitive efflux rate constant fell slightly but not significantly ( 1.8 + / - 0.2 vs 2.1 + / - 0.2 hr-1 ; n = 10 ) . these results suggest that stress in the form of a cold stimulus produces qualitative differences in leukocyte cation transport in normotensive offspring of hypertensive patients as compared with subjects without such a family history . 
sodium-lithium countertransport in ambulatory hypertensive and normotensive patients . numerous studies have reported the mean value for na+-li+ countertransport to be increased in red blood cells from patients with essential hypertension . although concomitant variables including age , body size , national origin , geographic location , gender , and family history of hypertension may affect na+-li+ countertransport values , most case-control studies have failed to assess the contribution of these factors to the differences in na+-li+ countertransport between hypertensive and normotensive groups . the present study was undertaken to provide estimates of na+-li+ countertransport in hypertensive and normotensive subjects after taking into account these potentially confounding sources of variation . in 187 subjects undergoing medical evaluation at the mayo clinic , rochester , mn , the combined effects of variation in age , height , and weight accounted for 20.6 % of the interindividual variability in na+-li+ countertransport . after adjustment to remove variability due to these concomitants , differences in national origin , region of birth , and place of current residence made no additional contribution to variability in this trait . there was no significant difference in mean adjusted na+-li+ countertransport between men and women ( 0.41 + / - 0.17 vs 0.40 + / - 0.12 [ sd ] mmol li efflux / l red blood cells / hr ; n = 107 ) . the mean value for adjusted na+-li+ countertransport was significantly greater ( p less than or equal to 0.001 ) in subjects with essential hypertension ( 0.44 + / - 0.15 mmol / l red blood cell / hr ; n = 104 ) compared with normotensive subjects ( 0.31 + / - 0.07 mmol / l red blood cells / hr ; n = 39 ) or subjects with borderline blood pressure elevation ( 0.35 + / - 0.11 mmol / l red blood cells / hr ; n = 21 ) . subjects with a family history of hypertension in at least one parent or full sibling had significantly higher ( p less than 0.02 ) na+-li+ countertransport values ( 0.42 + / - 0.16 mmol / l red blood cells / hr ; n = 111 ) than those with no family history of hypertension ( 0.37 + / - 0.13 mmol / l red blood cells / hr ; n = 76 ) . these results suggest that increased mean na+-li+ countertransport in hypertensive subjects in this sample cannot be attributed to confounding effects of variation in age , body size , gender , national origin , birthplace , or residence . forty-eight percent of subjects with essential hypertension had adjusted na+-li+ countertransport values above the range observed in normotensive controls . 
renal alpha 2-adrenergic receptors and hypertension . 
peripheral dopamine receptors in the antihypertensive action of dihydroergotoxine in humans . the effect of the intravenous administration of dihydroergotoxine ( 6 micrograms / kg ) on arterial blood pressure , heart rate , and plasma concentrations of norepinephrine and 3 , 4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid ( the deaminated dopamine metabolite ) was studied in 20 subjects with essential hypertension ( 8 men and 12 women aged 32-68 years old , world health organization class i-ii ) . in supine resting subjects , dihydroergotoxine significantly decreased systolic blood pressure ( from 175 + / - 5 to 156 + / - 4 mm hg ; p less than 0.001 ) , diastolic blood pressure ( from 109 + / - 4 to 95 + / - 3 mm hg ; p less than 0.001 ) , and heart rate ( from 71 + / - 2 to 63 + / - 2 beats / min ; p less than 0.001 ) as compared with the results of placebo treatment . moreover , dihydroergotoxine reduced plasma levels of norepinephrine ( from 368 + / - 39 to 238 + / - 33 pg / ml ; p less than 0.001 ) and 3 , 4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid ( from 1.57 + / - 0.21 to 1.22 + / - 0.13 ng / ml ; p less than 0.01 ) . the time course of the blood pressure decrease paralleled that of plasma norepinephrine concentration . dihydroergotoxine did not suppress the cardiovascular and plasma norepinephrine concentration . dihydroergotoxine did not suppress the cardiovascular and plasma norepinephrine response to standing . the effect of domperidone , a peripheral presynaptic dopamine receptor antagonist , on dihydroergotoxine response was studied in six of the 20 subjects ( 3 men and 3 women 48-64 years old ) . the intravenous administration of domperidone ( 0.3 mg / kg ) prevented the dihydroergotoxine-induced reduction in blood pressure and heart rate and the fall in plasma norepinephrine and 3 , 4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels . domperidone administered alone failed to significantly modify any measured variables . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
role of renal alpha 2-adrenergic receptors in spontaneously hypertensive rats . to identify a physiological role for renal alpha 2 adrenergic receptors , renal vascular and tubular responses to administration of graded frequencies of renal nerve stimulation or graded doses of adrenergic agonists were determined in anesthetized spontaneously hypertensive , wistar-kyoto , and sprague-dawley rats . renal vasoconstrictor responses to renal nerve stimulation and alpha 1-adrenergic receptor agonists ( norepinephrine , phenylephrine ) were inhibited by an alpha 1-adrenergic receptor antagonist ( prazosin ) but not by an alpha 2-adrenergic receptor antagonist ( rauwolscine ) . a semilog plot of renal vasoconstrictor responses a fraction of control renal blood flow versus agonist dose ( in nanograms ) was linear with the slope , k , taken as the fractional decrease in renal blood flow per nanogram . the alpha 2-adrenergic receptor agonists ( clonidine , guanabenz ) produced minimal renal vasoconstrictor responses ( fractional decrease in renal blood flow per nanogram : norepinephrine , 0.011 ; phenylephrine , 0.003 ; clonidine , 0.00087 ; guanabenz , 0.000037 ) . the small renal vasoconstrictor responses to clonidine and guanabenz were more inhibited by rauwolscine than by prazosin . low frequency renal nerve stimulation produced antidiuresis and antinatriuresis without decreasing glomerular filtration rate or renal blood flow . the antidiuretic and antinatriuretic responses were inhibited by prazosin but unaffected by rauwolscine . the magnitude of the renal vascular and tubular responses and their adrenergic receptor mediation were not different between spontaneously hypertensive , wistar-kyoto , and sprague-dawley rats . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
primary hypertension in a colony of dogs . a 5-year-old female siberian husky that was diagnosed as an essential hypertensive was bred several times over a 5-year period , producing a colony of 39 offspring . thirty of the 39 animals were subjected to biweekly systemic arterial blood pressure determinations with femoral arterial puncture and were placed into two hypertensive and two normotensive groups based on mean blood pressure : group 1 ( mean blood pressure , 128 + / - 12 mm hg ) , group 2 ( mean blood pressure , 121 + / - 3 mm hg ) , group 3 ( mean blood pressure , 114 + / - 8 mm hg ) , and group 4 ( mean blood pressure , 101 + / - 9 mm hg ) . groups 1 , 2 , and 3 had mean blood pressures significantly higher than that of group 4 ( p less than 0.05 ) . ten dogs ( representatives from groups 1 , 2 , and 3 ) were subjected to more detailed clinical testing including angiography , echocardiography , ophthalmic examination , plasma catecholamine and renin activity measurements , plasma lead and cadmium determinations , cerebrospinal fluid examination , renal profile , and serum chemistry and hematological analysis . five unrelated normotensive siberian huskies were compared with colony dogs by using echocardiography . groups 1 and 2 showed a clear but statistically insignificant upward trend in left ventricular wall thickness indexed against body weights when compared with that in group 3 and in the unrelated five normal siberian dogs . thus , the only specific difference from group to group in the colony at the termination of this study was the difference in mean blood pressure . based on these data , it is possible and likely that aging will reveal changes secondary to chronic primary hypertension . the pathogenesis of this hereditary disorder remains unknown . 
cell and wall morphology of intestinal arterioles from 4- to 6- and 17- to 19-week-old wistar-kyoto and spontaneously hypertensive rats . to determine whether vascular smooth muscle cells around intestinal arterioles of various sizes undergo comparable changes in spontaneously hypertensive rats , 4- to 6-week-old ( n = 10 ) and 17- to 19-week-old ( n = 10 ) rats from the wistar-kyoto and the spontaneously hypertensive strains were used to study the external morphology of vascular smooth muscle cells by scanning electron microscopy and the vessel wall cross-sectional characteristics by light microscopy . at the time of fixation all vascular tone had been abolished . scanning electron microscopy analysis revealed that all wistar-kyoto and spontaneously hypertensive rats at a given age have spindle-shaped vascular smooth muscle cells of comparable length and longitudinal width for a given branching order of arterioles . however , normal maturation is associated with elongation and widening of the vascular smooth muscle cells . light and scanning electron microscopy indicated that a monolayer of vascular smooth muscle cells , wrapped at almost 0 degree to the vessel 's radial axis , is maintained in adult spontaneously hypertensive rats . the radial thickness of this vascular smooth muscle cell monolayer was significantly ( p less than 0.025 ) increased for only the largest arterioles of young and adult spontaneously hypertensive rats . this radial thickening of individual vascular smooth muscle cells increased the muscular component of the wall area for the largest arterioles by about 50 % in adult spontaneously hypertensive rats . other smaller submucosal arterioles of young and adult spontaneously hypertensive rats had normal vessel wall and vascular smooth muscle cell characteristics . these data indicate that hypertrophy in the smooth muscle cell 's radial dimension is the primary morphological change in intestinal arterioles of spontaneously hypertensive rats . however , the vascular smooth muscle cell hypertrophy is confined to the largest arterioles such that the remaining smaller arteriolar vessels in the spontaneously hypertensive rat retain a normal smooth muscle cell and overall wall morphology . 
impaired renorenal reflexes in spontaneously hypertensive rats . in normotensive sprague-dawley rats stimulation of renal mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors by increasing ureteral pressure and retrograde ureteropelvic perfusion with 0.9 m nacl results in a contralateral inhibitory renorenal reflex response with contralateral diuresis and natriuresis . since efferent renal nerve activity is increased in spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr ) and renal denervation delays the onset of hypertension in shr in association with increased diuresis and natriuresis , the present study was undertaken to examine whether renorenal reflexes were altered in shr compared with normotensive wistar-kyoto rats ( wky ) . in wky mean arterial pressure was 113 + / - 2 mm hg and remained unchanged during renal mechanoreceptor and chemoreceptor stimulation . increasing ureteral pressure 35 mm hg increased ipsilateral afferent renal nerve activity 4.5 + / - 1.7 resets / min , decreased contralateral efferent renal nerve activity 3.2 + / - 0.8 resets / min , and increased contralateral urine flow rate 33 + / - 4 % and urinary sodium excretion 49 + / - 8 % . similarly , retrograde ureteropelvic perfusion with 0.9 m nacl increased ipsilateral afferent renal nerve activity 2.5 + / - 0.6 resets / min , decreased contralateral efferent renal nerve activity 2.4 + / - 1.1 resets / min , and increased contralateral urine flow rate 39 + / - 5 % and urinary sodium excretion 38 + / - 8 % . stimulating renal mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors to the same extent in shr failed to increase ipsilateral afferent renal nerve activity , decrease contralateral efferent renal nerve activity , and produce a contralateral diuresis and natriuresis . it is concluded that renorenal reflexes are impaired in shr . failure of ipsilateral afferent renal nerve activity to increase during renal mechanoreceptor and chemoreceptor stimulation indicates a peripheral defect at the level of the renal sensory receptors . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
difference between human red blood cell na+-li+ countertransport and renal na+-h+ exchange . several laboratories have reported that the activities of sodium-lithium countertransport are increased in red blood cells from patients with essential hypertension . based on the many similarities between this transport system and the renal sodium-proton exchanger , a hypothesis has been put forth in the literature that increased red blood cell sodium-lithium countertransport activity may be a marker for increased sodium-proton exchange activity in the renal proximal tubule . the present studies were designed to test the hypothesis that sodium-lithium countertransport in red blood cells from humans or rabbits is mediated by the same transport mechanism that mediates sodium-proton exchange in the renal brush border from those species . similar to what has been reported for the rabbit , the present studies show that an amiloride-sensitive sodium-proton exchanger is present in human renal brush border vesicles . however , na+-li+ countertransport in human and rabbit red blood cells , assayed under several different conditions , was not inhibited by amiloride . in agreement with what has been reported for humans , the present studies show that extracellular proton-stimulated sodium efflux is inhibited by amiloride in rabbit red blood cells . these data demonstrate a difference ( amiloride sensitivity ) between the red blood cell sodium-lithium countertransporter and the renal brush border sodium-proton exchanger in humans and rabbits . these experiments detract from the hypothesis that increased red blood cell sodium-lithium countertransport activity in patients with essential hypertension is a marker for increased sodium-proton exchange activity in the renal brush border . 
abnormal adrenal catecholamine synthesis in salt-sensitive dahl rats . the possible role of catecholamines in the abnormal renal response to salt loading , a genetic defect resulting in hypertension in the salt-sensitive strain of dahl rats , was investigated by measuring the adrenal synthesis of norepinephrine , epinephrine , and dopamine as well as their content in several tissues and the urinary excretion of these catecholamines as well as some of their metabolites at the height of salt-induced hypertension . we found that salt-sensitive dahl rats , compared with salt-resistant dahl rats , have a higher adrenal synthesis of [ 3h ] norepinephrine following a pulse injection of [ 3h ] tyrosine , a higher adrenal norepinephrine and epinephrine content but a lower kidney and heart ventricle content of dopamine and norepinephrine , and a decreased excretion of urinary dopamine , dihydroxyphenylacetic acid , 3-methoxytyramine , and homovanillic acid . these data suggest that the primary abnormality in salt-sensitive dahl rats may be their inability to turn off , during high salt intake , their increased adrenal norepinephrine synthesis from dopamine . the abnormal catecholamine response of salt-sensitive dahl rats to high salt intake indirectly suggests increased noradrenergic activity and decreased dopaminergic activity in the kidney , which may be important mechanisms in the sodium retention and hypertension of these rats . 
role of sympathetic nervous system in hypotensive action of taurine in doca-salt rats . we tested the hypothesis that the antihypertensive effects of dietary taurine supplementation in deoxycorticosterone acetate ( doca ) -salt rats may be attributed to the suppression of sympathetic nervous system activity . in uninephrectomized rats treated with doca while receiving 1 % nacl solution for 2 weeks , systolic blood pressure was significantly increased as compared with that in control rats treated with vehicle suspension and tap water . sympathetic nervous system activity was assessed by tissue norepinephrine turnover , which was determined from the rate of decline of tissue norepinephrine concentration after the administration of alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine , a potent inhibitor of the rate-limiting step of catecholamine synthesis . cardiac and splenic norepinephrine turnover during either normal conditions or cold exposure ( 4 degrees c , 8 hours ) were markedly increased in doca-salt rats as compared with control rats . also , doca-salt rats had increased depressor response to hexamethonium bromide , a ganglion blocker . in contrast , supplementation of 1 % taurine in doca-salt rats attenuated the development of the hypertension associated with the normalization of both the increased depressor response to ganglionic blockade and the accelerated cardiac and splenic norepinephrine turnover during either normal conditions or cold exposure . taurine supplementation in control rats , however , had no effect on blood pressure or norepinephrine turnover during cold exposure . these results suggest that taurine supplementation suppresses sympathetic overactivity in doca-salt rats , thus leading to inhibition of the development of hypertension . 
a high phosphate diet lowers blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats . plasma phosphate values are significantly lower in spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr ) than in normotensive wistar-kyoto rats ( wky ) . in this study , we increased plasma phosphate in shr by a dietary phosphate intake and followed the effects on blood pressure . fifteen male wky and 15 male shr were housed from 4 weeks of age up to 26 weeks . at 4 weeks of age all shr manifested a hypophosphatemia compared with age-matched wky ( f = 62 , p less than 0.0003 ) . at 5 weeks of age , the rats were divided into three diet groups : a control group , a group receiving 1.41 % ( wt / vol ) kcl in drinking water , and a group receiving 2 % ( wt / vol ) k2hpo4 x kh2po4 in drinking water . in the control ( f = 16.2 , p less than 0.02 ) and kcl groups , ( f = 36.3 , p less than 0.03 ) , hypophosphatemia persisted throughout the study . the phosphate-supplemented diet normalized plasma phosphate level in shr but did not change plasma phosphate level in wky . as a consequence , no difference in plasma phosphate level between wky and shr was present in the group receiving additional phosphate from that time on ( f = 1.2 , p greater than 0.41 ) . the phosphate-supplemented diet significantly decreased systolic blood pressure in both strains . in phosphate-supplemented shr , a significant decline in systolic blood pressure was observed from 20 weeks of age on ( at 20 weeks of age : 222 + / - 3 mm hg for control shr vs 198 + / - 5 mm hg for phosphate-supplemented shr ; p less than 0.0003 ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
preoperative anxiety : the pediatric patient . 
neurological and psychological complications of surgery and anesthesia . 
preoperative anxiety : the adult patient . 
compression neuropathies : medical aspects and legal implications . 
neurological sequelae of spinal and epidural anesthesia . 
the economic transformation of american health insurance : implications for the hospital industry . the economics of cost containment , growing competition , and the introduction of new technology are forcing major changes on the health insurance industry . this transformation will impact the hospital industry in significant ways , hastening its evolution from a cottage industry to a modern corporate structure . 
preferred provider organizations : issues for employers . the preferred provider organization ( ppo ) , an alternative delivery system currently embraced by the employer sector , has been growing at a phenomenal rate for the past few years . it is necessary to examine the issues an employer should consider when deciding whether to offer a ppo option , and to look at organizational issues such as ppo structure , quality , utilization review mechanisms , and benefits design . 
hospital-health care plan affiliations : considerations for strategy design . hospital-health care plan affiliations are designed to use idle hospital service capacity while minimizing the resulting financial risks . 
building physician alliances for cost containment . many cost containment programs are adversarial to physicians and therefore have limited success . meaningful alliances with physicians hold the promise of cost containment without compromising quality of care . 
vertical integration : exploration of a popular strategic concept . 
hospital cost savings : resembling business . hospitals , like other employers , offer health care benefits to their employees . cost savings can be realized when hospitals offer packages that resemble those provided by business employers . business packages explain variance in cost savings more than employee characteristics do . 
hcmr interview : david williamson [ interview by montague brown ] 
a look at the hospital administrator . the key individual in health care management in the new multidimensional health care system will be the hospital administrator , the person responsible for the overall management and direction of a single health care institution in a community . this person will have to deal with a vertically integrated institution and changing delivery and financing mechanisms . 
modified pectoralis major myocutaneous flap with partial preservation of the muscle : a study of 55 cases . the results of a technical modification of the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap are presented in which the clavicular bundles , the first two or three sternocostal bundles , and the lateral border of the muscle were preserved . the flap was delivered into the neck through a subclavicular tunnel . the procedure was performed in 55 patients , with a bilateral simultaneous flap used in one . four instances of flap necrosis occurred , although it was felt that they were not related to the modified technique , and no damage to the subclavian vessel occurred . in the first 25 flaps , we did not identify the neurovascular bundle supplying the preserved musculature . eighteen of these flaps were evaluated , and atrophy was encountered in 10. of the latter 31 patients , only one suffered atrophy of the sternocostal bundle . the technical modification of preserving part of the muscle and its neurovascular supply is especially important in manual workers . twenty-eight of 38 patients with preserved muscle function at the donor site were manual workers , and 10 of them returned to normal activity . none of the patients who developed atrophy of the pectoralis major muscular remnant was able to return to work within 1 year or longer after treatment . in the successful cases , there were no functional sequelae of the arm , visible depressions in the infraclavicular area , or loss of the anatomic configuration of the anterior axillary line . 
salvage surgery for recurrent neck carcinoma after multimodality therapy . recurrent carcinoma of the neck after treatment by radical neck dissection and radiotherapy leads to a progressive downhill course if no further therapy is instituted . nine such patients having fixed , recurrent neck tumors with carotid artery involvement underwent 10 salvage procedures with carotid artery resection and replacement . one patient developed a transient hemiparesis that resolved in 3 days , and in another , a permanent hemiparesis occurred . three patients have survived longer than 12 months . one patient is free of disease at 42 months following two salvage operations . we attribute the low operative morbidity to the frequent use of the subclavian artery for proximal anastomosis and myocutaneous flaps to resurface cutaneous and mucosal defects . we conclude that salvage surgery with carotid artery replacement can be performed on selected patients who have failed combined therapy as a palliative and possibly curative measure . 
sphenoid sinus brown tumor , hypercalcemia , and blindness : an unusual presentation of primary hyperparathyroidism . this is a first report of primary hyperparathyroidism ( hpt ) masquerading as a destructive fibrous sphenoid sinus " brown tumor " associated with progressive blindness and hypercalcemia . diagnosis of a brown tumor was delayed despite serial computerized tomography of the head and repeated transnasal and transethmoid sphenoid biopsies demonstrating diffuse fibrosis . only detection and medical evaluation of hypercalcemia , demonstrating elevation of both serum calcium and c-terminal parathyroid hormone with an elevated chloride / phosphate ratio , prompted neck exploration , thus confirming a solitary left superior parathyroid adenoma . postoperative normocalcemia occurred synchronously with the return of light perception and the arrest of sphenoid sinus and parasellar erosion . although maxillary brown tumors of secondary hpt have been reported , this is the first report of osteitis fibrosa of the sphenoid sinus . differential diagnosis of an erosive sphenoid lesion with cranial nerve dysfunction , exclusive of inflammatory or vascular disease , should include sarcoidosis , primary and metastatic sphenoid carcinoma , fibrous dysplasia , giant cell reparative granuloma , midline lethal granuloma , chordoma , and chondrosarcoma . furthermore , the bony destructive lesions with concomitant hypercalcemia of sarcoidosis and hpt are distinguishable by radiographic and laboratory analyses and by the dent corticosteroid suppression test . hypercalcemia of primary hpt is associated with elevated serum c-terminal parathormone , osteitis fibrosa , a negative dent test , and a chloride / phosphate ratio greater than 33 in 94 % of primary hpt patients . hypercalcemia of sarcoidosis is associated with a normal or decreased c-terminal parathormone assay and a positive dent test , as well as elevated serum immunoglobulins and erythrocyte sedimentation rate , and a positive angiotensin-converting enzyme assay . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
heterogeneity of graves ' immunoglobulin g : comparison of thyrotropin receptor antibodies in serum and in culture supernatants of lymphocytes transformed by epstein-barr virus infection . it is well known that in patients with graves ' disease there is dissociation among values for tsh receptor antibodies such as tsh binding-inhibiting antibody ( tbiab ) and thyroid-stimulating antibody ( tsab ) . this study was designed to compare tsh receptor antibodies in serum and in culture supernatants of lymphocytes transformed by epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) infection . tbiab was assayed using solubilized porcine thyroid membranes and tsab using cultured porcine thyroid cells . transformation of peripheral lymphocytes by ebv was performed in eight untreated hyperthyroid patients with graves ' disease who had a clear dissociation between values for tbiab and tsab , even after multiple dilutions of serum . ebv-infected lymphocytes from a patient were distributed into the wells of 4 24-well culture plates . after the first 4-week culture , the cells in each well positive for tbiab and / or tsab were further distributed to 12 wells and cultured for 2 weeks . in the supernatants of 372 wells of the second culture in the 8 patients , 31 were positive for tbiab , and 41 were positive for tsab . among the 76 wells positive for tsh receptor antibodies , 72 wells ( 94.7 % ) were positive in only 1 assay . these results suggest that there are two types of tsh receptor antibodies , one having a single function ( tbiab or tsab ) and the other multifunctional ( both ) , in graves ' patients . the incidence of the single functional type is much greater than that of the multifunctional type . we conclude , therefore , that the heterogeneity of graves ' immunoglobulin g is due mainly to multiple antibodies with a single function . 
a comparison of thyroid carcinoma in those who have and have not had head and neck irradiation in childhood . among 1324 patients with well differentiated ( papillary , follicular , hurthle cell ) thyroid carcinoma treated at the university of texas m . d . anderson hospital and tumor institute between january 1950 and july 1984 , 125 had a history of external irradiation to the head and neck region during childhood . this study was a comparison of the characteristics and disease course of thyroid carcinoma in these patients with those of patients who had not received such irradiation . each irradiated patient was matched to 3 nonirradiated patients by age , sex , and extent of disease . the groups had similar distributions of histological type of lesion , surgical procedures , and number of patients who received radioactive iodine as part of their initial treatment . the two groups ' recurrence and mortality rates were similar as well , although patients who had head and neck irradiation as children more often presented with thyroid cancer not limited to the thyroid gland and bilateral thyroid lobe involvement ( p less than 0.005 ) . the data indicate that patients who received head and neck irradiation have , at the time of diagnosis , more extensive thyroid carcinoma . however , the prognosis of well differentiated thyroid carcinoma in patients who have a history of head and neck irradiation is similar to that in patients without such a history . 
evidence for thyrotropin ( tsh ) -blocking activity in goitrous hashimoto 's thyroiditis with assays measuring inhibition of tsh receptor binding and tsh-stimulated thyroid adenosine 3 ' , 5'-monophosphate responses / cell growth by immunoglobulins . there are two forms of autoimmune thyroiditis that may cause hypothyroidism : autoimmune atrophic thyroiditis ( primary idiopathic hypothyroidism or primary myxedema ) and autoimmune goitrous thyroiditis ( hashimoto 's disease ) . patients with the former have impalpable thyroid glands , and those with the latter have goiters . we studied tsh binding inhibitory immunoglobulins ( tbii ) , tsh-stimulated camp response inhibitory immunoglobulins ( tsii ) , and tsh-stimulated cell growth inhibitory immunoglobulins ( tgii ) in 42 patients with the former ( group 1 ) and 115 patients with the latter ( group 2 ) . porcine thyroid cells in primary culture and rat thyroid cells in continuous culture ( frtl-5 cells ) were used to study tsii and tgii activities , respectively ; tsii was expressed as percent inhibition of 0.1 mu / ml tsh-stimulated camp response by the patient 's immunoglobulin ( igg ; 1 mg / ml ) during 2-h incubation , and tgii was expressed as percent inhibition of 10 mu / ml tsh-stimulated [ 14c ] thymidine incorporation by the patient 's igg ( 1 mg / ml ) during 24-h incubation . the new findings in this report are : some patients in both groups had tbii , tsii , and / or tgii ; the frequency of the presence of tbii , tsii , and tgii in the patients with autoimmune atrophic thyroiditis was higher than that in the patients with autoimmune goitrous thyroiditis , and tsii and tgii were significantly associated with autoimmune atrophic thyroiditis ; no correlation was found between goiter size and tbii , tsii , or tgii activity ; and there were good correlations between tbii , tsii , and tgii activities . we also found that tsh-stimulated thymidine incorporation was through camp production and that the inhibitory iggs inhibited tsh-stimulated thymidine incorporation by decreasing camp production in frtl-5 cells , but not in porcine or human thyroid cells . 
growth hormone inhibitory and stimulatory actions of l-dopa in patients with acromegaly . it is not clear whether dopamine ( da ) has a central stimulating activity on gh secretion in patients with acromegaly , as it does in normal subjects . to clarify this , we compared the gh inhibitory potencies of da , which does not cross the blood-brain barrier ( bbb ) , and l-dopa or bromocriptine , which do cross the bbb , in 23 patients with acromegaly . further , we examined the central effects of l-dopa after selectively blocking peripheral ( median eminence and pituitary ) da receptors with domperidone ( a da d2 receptor blocker which does not cross the bbb ) . after the administration of da ( 5 micrograms / kg x min , iv , for 90 min ) , l-dopa ( 500 mg , orally ) , or bromocriptine ( 2.5 mg , orally ) , the mean plasma gh decrease was greatest after da [ maximum decrement , 71.9 + / - 3.8 % ( + / - sem ) ; n = 21 ] compared to l-dopa ( 44.1 + / - 5.6 % ; n = 23 ; p less than 0.001 ) or bromocriptine ( 58.9 + / - 5.0 % ; n = 20 ; p less than 0.02 ) . eleven of these patients received a single infusion of domperidone ( 0.22 mg / min , iv , for 180 min ) or a combination of domperidone and l-dopa . mean plasma gh levels did not change during domperidone alone . however , plasma gh levels in these patients increased significantly when l-dopa was administered 30 min after the start of domperidone infusion ( vs . control study : at 90 min , 137.3 + / - 10.8 % vs . 100.2 + / - 3.9 % , p less than 0.01 ; at 120 min , 138.8 + / - 19.7 % vs . 106.5 + / - 3.1 % , p less than 0.05 ) . in contrast , one patient who had a distinct plasma gh increase in response to the domperidone-l-dopa test had no increase in plasma gh when given l-dopa 30 min after the start of a sulpiride infusion ( da d2 receptor blocker which crosses the bbb ; 1.1 mg / min , iv , for 180 min ) . unlike gh , plasma prl responses to domperidone infusion were not modified by the additional administration of l-dopa . these results suggest that in acromegaly , da has not only direct suppressive effects on the pituitary tumor somatotrophs , but also indirect stimulatory effects via the hypothalamus ; therefore , the hypothalamic gh-releasing system is not entirely suppressed by excessive tumor gh secretion . 
thyroglobulin release-stimulating activity in immunoglobulin g from patients with graves ' disease studied by human thyroid cells in vitro . the ability of tsh or immunoglobulin g ( g-igg ) from untreated patients with hyperthyroidism due to graves ' disease to stimulate thyroglobulin ( tg ) release from human thyroid cells was studied . thyroid tissue obtained from antithyroid drug-treated graves ' hyperthyroid patients was dispersed enzymatically and cultured in monolayers ; medium was changed every 3 days . the cultured cells initially released large but declining amounts of tg , independent of the presence of tsh ( approximately 5 micrograms / dish on day 3 and approximately 1.5 micrograms / dish on day 6 ) . after 6 days , tsh had a dose-dependent stimulatory effect on tg release , and the peak response occurred on day 15. g-igg-induced tg release was found on the 12th day of culture and was maximal on day 18. thyroid cells cultured for 12 days in the absence of tsh responded to tsh and g-igg in a time- and dose-dependent fashion . using 12-day cultures , tg release-stimulating activity ( tg-rsa ) was tested using 5 mg / ml ( 7.5 mg / dish ) g-iggs from 20 patients and 72-h incubation . the tg-rsa of individual patients varied . however , significant correlations were found between tg-rsa values and serum tg concentrations or tg-rsa and thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulin activities . no correlation was found between tg-rsa and tsh binding inhibitor immunoglobulin activities . these results suggest that tg-rsa can be an indicator of abnormal igg of hyperthyroid graves ' patients . whether the activity is identical with thyroid-stimulating activity remains to be clarified . 
transdermal delivery of testosterone . we administered testosterone transdermally to six hypogonadal men by applying a thin flexible polymeric membrane containing testosterone to the scrotum . each man wore a placebo membrane and three doses ( 5 , 10 , and 15 mg ) of testosterone-containing membranes for 22 h / day . each dose was worn for 1 week , and one dose was worn a second week . blood was sampled frequently for one 22 h period on the seventh day of each treatment period . after the application of a membrane , the serum testosterone concentration rose rapidly , reached a peak in 2-3 h , and decreased slowly to 60-80 % of the peak value by 22 h . the mean ( + / - se ) 22-h average testosterone concentration during the wearing period was dependent on the testosterone content of the membrane ( placebo , 135 + / - 38 ng / dl ; 5 mg , 348 + / - 66 ng / dl ; 10 mg , 455 + / - 77 ng / dl ; and 15 mg , 624 + / - 65 ng / dl ; p less than 0.001 , by analysis of variance ) . when the same dose was worn twice , the mean coefficient of variation was 13.9 % . we conclude that the transdermal application of testosterone to hypogonadal men reproducibly raises their serum testosterone concentrations to within the normal range , and that it , therefore , warrants evaluation as a treatment for male hypogonadism . 
the role of glucosylated serum albumin in monitoring glycemic control in stable insulin-requiring diabetic out-patients . to determine the value of glucosylated serum albumin ( gsa ) in assessing blood glucose control in stabilized diabetic out-patients , 15 insulin-requiring subjects were studied for 8-12 weeks . gsa was determined every 14 days , and glucosylated hemoglobin ( ghb ) was measured once or twice . capillary blood glucose records were used to determine mean fasted and mean daily blood sugar concentrations ( mean of fasted , preprandial , and bedtime values ) during serial 7-day intervals preceding each gsa and ghb determination and also for 28- , 56- , and 84-day intervals preceding each gsa determination . gsa positively correlated with preceding weekly mean fasting and mean daily blood glucose concentrations for 1-11 weeks ( r ranges , 0.40-0.64 and 0.46-0.64 , respectively ) without a temporal pattern . gsa positively correlated with mean fasted and daily blood sugar levels determined over the preceding 28 , 56 , and 84 days ( r range , 0.54-0.74 ) . in addition , gsa correlated with ghb when drawn within 14 days ( r = 0.72 ) or 28 days ( r = 0.65 ) of each other . when monitoring the glycemic control of stable insulin-requiring diabetic patients , gsa offers similar information to ghb , and the two tests may be used interchangeably . 
diabetic autonomic neuropathy and impaired human pancreatic polypeptide secretion in response to food . in normal subjects , the early human pancreatic polypeptide ( hpp ) increase induced by food is mainly dependent on vagal activity . parasympathetic function and plasma hpp response to a standard mixed meal were evaluated in 10 long term insulin-dependent ( type i ) diabetic patients ( group a ) , 6 age-matched newly diagnosed type i diabetic patients ( group b ) , and 8 normal subjects . the indices of vagal function ( beat to beat heart rate variation during deep breathing and the valsalva maneuver ) were uniformly altered in group a , while they were in the normal range in group b , thus excluding in these latter patients the presence of vagal damage . plasma hpp in response to standard mixed meal was measured at 5 , 15 , 30 , 60 , and 120 min . fasting plasma hpp concentrations ( determined by ria ) in groups a and b ( mean + / - sem , 113 + / - 21 and 83 + / - 21 pg / ml , respectively ) did not significantly differ from normal ( 59 + / - 12 pg / ml ) . in group a , the initial meal-induced hpp increase was significantly lower than normal ( 5 min , 139 + / - 12 ; 15 min , 173 + / - 24 ; 30 min , 137 + / - 17 pg / ml ; p less than 0.01 vs . 5 min , 412 + / - 76 ; 15 min , 446 + / - 57 ; 30 min , 325 + / - 56 pg / ml ) . all group b patients had a marked early increase in the peptide , similar to that in the normal subjects . these results suggest that diabetic autonomic neuropathy is associated with dysfunction of hpp secretion , and the evaluation of hpp in response to smm may be considered a sensitive and nonstressful method for the assessment of parasympathetic impairment in diabetes . 
diminished aldosterone responses to angiotensin ii and adrenocorticotropin in hypocalcemic subjects : restoration of responsiveness with normocalcemia . acth- , angiotensin ii ( aii ) - , and k+-mediated aldosterone responses in vitro are dependent on extracellular and intracellular ca concentrations . this study examined in vivo the relationship of changes in ambient serum calcium ( serum ca ) to acth- and aii-mediated aldosterone release in hypoparathyroid subjects . plasma aldosterone ( pa ) responses to graded dose infusions of acth and aii were examined in hypoparathyroid ( hypopth ) patients before ( n = 8 ) and after correction of hypocalcemia ( n = 6 ) and compared to responses in 20 normotensive normocalcemic subjects . acth and aii were infused for 90 min at rates increasing from 12.5 to 50 miu / 30 min and 0.5 to 2.0 ng / kg x min , respectively . pretreatment mean serum ca was 6.8 + / - 0.2 ( + / - sem ) mg / dl , and it rose to 9.3 + / - 0.2 mg / dl after 3-8 weeks of vitamin d administration . in the untreated hypopth patients , basal mean pa ( 5.4 + / - 1.3 ng / dl ) was lower ( p less than 0.01 ) than in the normal subjects ( 10.6 + / - 0.6 ng / dl ) or treated hypopth patients ( 9.5 + / - 1.8 ng / dl ) . there was a marked reduction in pa responses to acth at all doses in the untreated hypopth patients compared to the normal subjects . with normalization of serum ca in four patients , the mean peak pa response to acth ( 25.1 + / - 6.0 ng / dl ) was not significantly different from normal ( 28.9 + / - 1.7 ng / dl ) . during graded dose aii infusion in five untreated hypopth patients , mean pa levels increased from 6.9 + / - 1.2 to 11.6 + / - 2.2 ng / dl ; when the serum ca was normal , the corresponding values were 8.7 + / - 1.8 and 20.2 + / - 3.61 ng / dl . there was a positive correlation ( r = 0.475 ; p less than 0.05 ) between basal pa and serum ca levels . in addition , maximum changes in mean arterial pressure in response to aii infusions were significantly greater after correction of hypocalcemia . these observations indicate that in hypopth patients , extracellular ca concentrations can influence humoral aldosterone response to acth and aii and pressor responses to aii . 
radioimmunoassay of the serum free beta-subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin in trophoblastic disease . we developed a ria specific for the free beta hcg employing anti-beta hcg monoclonal antibody 1d12 . this ria was highly sensitive to free beta hcg ; the minimum detectable concentration was 0.4 ng / ml . alpha hcg , lh , beta lh , and fsh had little effect in the assay ; the cross-reactivity of hcg was about 4 % . using this ria , we measured serum free beta hcg concentrations in 38 normal pregnant women and 72 untreated patients with 3 types of trophoblastic disease : hydatidiform mole ( n = 15 ) , invasive mole ( n = 29 ) , and choriocarcinoma ( n = 28 ) . all of these samples were simultaneously assayed for hcg by ria . in normal pregnant women , serum hcg changed as pregnancy progressed , but serum free beta hcg was not detected at any time . in contrast , serum free beta hcg was measurable in the majority of patients with trophoblastic disease . strong correlations were found between the concentration of free beta hcg and that of hcg in each type of trophoblastic diseases . the mean free beta hcg to hcg ratio was lowest for hydatidiform mole and highest for choriocarcinoma , and the difference between the ratios in these 2 groups was statistically significant . serial measurements in 7 patients with trophoblastic disease failed to reveal remarkable changes in the free beta hcg to hcg ratio throughout their clinical course . we conclude that the production of free beta hcg increases with the immaturity of the trophoblastic cell , and the degree of differentiation of trophoblastic cells may be reflected by the free beta hcg to hcg ratio . 
thyroid hormone inhibits fibronectin synthesis by cultured human skin fibroblasts . fibronectin ( fn ) is a glycoprotein composed of two different subunits , each with a mol wt of approximately 230k . fn is important for cell adhesion and for maintaining normal cell morphology . recent in vivo studies suggested that thyroid hormone affects the plasma fn level in man . the aim of this study was to determine whether t3 regulates the synthesis of fn in cultured human skin fibroblasts . skin fibroblasts obtained from seven normal subjects were grown in minimum essential medium supplemented with 10 % fetal calf serum . after reaching confluence , the cells were exposed for 3 days to the same medium in which fetal calf serum was replaced by 10 % thyroidectomized bovine serum without or with added t3 . at the end of this period , the cultures were incubated with [ 35s ] methionine ( 95 microci / dish ) for 4 h before harvesting . cell lysates and corresponding media were combined , and 35s incorporation into total protein and fn was determined by trichloroacetic acid precipitation and immunoprecipitation with antihuman fn immunoglobulin , respectively . analysis of the immunoprecipitated material by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed that most of the 35s activity migrated as a 230k band which was displaced by excess unlabeled fn . addition of t3 did not affect trichloroacetic acid-precipitable 35s activity but decreased the 35s activity precipitated with anti-fn in a dose-dependent manner . while addition of 10 ( -10 ) m t3 to the medium had no effect , 35s incorporation into fn was inhibited by 22.5 + / - 7.4 % ( mean + / - sd ) with 10 ( -9 ) m t3 ( free t3 , 6 x 10 ( -12 ) m ) and by 31.3 + / - 5.8 % with 10 ( -7 ) m t3 . to assess whether the inhibition of fn accumulation by t3 was due to suppression of fn synthesis or enhanced fn degradation , cells were labeled for 4 h with [ 35s ] methionine and chased for another 4 h with excess unlabeled methionine . t3 had no effect on the rate of decline of [ 35s ] fn during the chase . we conclude that physiologic t3 concentrations inhibit the synthesis of fn in normal human fibroblasts . this effect provides a new method to study the action of thyroid hormone which may prove useful in the tissue diagnosis of resistance to thyroid hormone . 
clearance studies of oxytocin in humans using radioimmunoassay measurements of the hormone in plasma and urine . synthetic oxytocin ( ot ) was infused iv in four men at 3 mu / min , and the rate was doubled every 90 min for a total of three infusion periods . the mean ( + / - sem ) ot mcr was 16.4 + / - 1.7 ml / kg x min and was independent of the rate of infusion . a method for measuring ot in urine was developed using an octadecasilyl-silica column for extraction of the hormone . the extracted residue was reconstituted in potassium phosphate buffer , ph 7.4 , for ria . the minimum detectable level of ot in urine was 0.2 microu / ml ( defined as a bound to free ratio of approximately 90 % ) . the mean recovery of ot was 77 + / - 2 % . the mean ( + / - sem ) concentration of endogenous ot in urine was 10.2 + / - 1.4 microu / ml . endogenous ot in urine eluted from a reverse phase high pressure liquid chromatography column as a single peak of ot immunoreactivity in the position of synthetic ot . urinary ot excretion during infusion of synthetic ot was linearly correlated with plasma ot concentration whether calculated as microunits of urinary ot per mg creatinine ( r = 0.89 ) or urinary ot per min ( r = 0.93 ) . mean urinary fractional clearance of ot ( ot clearance / creatinine clearance ) was 3.6 % renal clearance of ot ( 5.5 ml / min or 0.43 % of mcr ) . thus , ot mcr was constant over a wide range of physiological plasma ot levels and was similar to mcr in pregnant women studied previously in this laboratory . less than 1 % of ot was cleared in urine . this study defines the relationship between urinary and plasma ot during steady state infusion of physiological concentrations of the hormone and indicates that measurements of ot in urine by ria may prove helpful for pharmacokinetic and physiological studies of ot-related events in humans . 
a subpopulation of immunoglobulin g in man selectively interacts with the hormone-binding sites of estrogen receptors . since the binding sites of hormone receptors may be similar to those of antihormone antibodies , we wondered whether the former might not be recognized by the idiotypic network . to test this hypothesis we investigated the interaction of plasma immunoglobulin g ( igg ) with the binding sites of estrogen receptors ( er ) from uterine or mammary tissue . using er isolated from uterine cytosol we found that igg from normal subjects shifted the position of purified receptor in sucrose gradients and displaced [ 3h ] estradiol ( e2 ) from its receptor-binding sites . equilibrium studies revealed competitive inhibition by igg of e2 binding to the er . igg isolated by adsorption on a rat uterine cytosol-blue b matrix gel column also bound to the er , and this binding was inhibited by an excess of e2 . after an 18-h exposure of mcf-7 mammary carcinoma cells in monolayer culture to igg ( 2 mg / ml ) , scatchard analysis of [ 3h ] e2 binding revealed a reproducible decrease in the available receptor sites from 2.52 + / - 0.56 ( + / - sem ) to 0.68 + / - 0.48 fmol / microgram dna ( n = 10 ) . this effect was selective , since enriched anti-er igg obtained by adsorption on purified receptor was 20 times more potent than total igg , whereas igg identically prepared but not retained by affinity chromatography had no activity . exposure of the cells to the igg for 45 min also revealed , as with isolated er , specific competition of the igg with e2 for the e2-binding sites ; the kd increased from 10.5 + / - 1.6 to 27.5 + / - 7.2 x 10 ( -11 ) m ( n = 7 ) . enriched antireceptor igg was a 20 times more effective competitor , and the igg not retained by affinity chromatography had no activity . in conclusion , our observations indicate the presence of er on the cell surface , interaction of er with igg from plasma of normal subjects , and competitive antagonism of these igg with e2 uptake leading to a decrease in effective er concentrations . 
relationship between pituitary and other target organ responsiveness in hypothyroid patients receiving thyroxine replacement . this study was undertaken to compare the sensitivity of the thyrotrophs to that of other tissues to t4 treatment in hypothyroid patients . to do so , we measured serum total and free thyroid hormones and tsh , in addition to several serum markers of peripheral tissue response to thyroid status , in 21 hypothyroid patients treated with 50-micrograms increments of t4 to a maximum of 200 micrograms daily ( group i ) and in 104 clinically euthyroid patients receiving a long term constant replacement dose ( group ii ) . in group i patients , dose-dependent increases ( p less than 0.05 ) in serum glutathione s-transferase , sex hormone-binding globulin , and angiotensin-converting enzyme occurred , whereas serum t4-binding globulin , creatine kinase , and creatinine levels decreased ( p less than 0.05 ) . in both patient groups , abnormally high levels of glutathione s-transferase , sex hormone-binding globulin , angiotensin-converting enzyme , alanine aminotransferase , and gamma-glutamyl transferase were found in some patients during treatment . one or more of these biochemical abnormalities suggestive of hyperthyroidism occurred in 15 ( 71 % ) group i patients and 27 ( 26 % ) group ii patients . these were associated with an undetectable serum tsh ( less than 0.1 microu / ml ) and raised free t4 concentrations in 13 , and raised free t3 , t4 , and t3 concentrations in only 8 , 6 , and 1 group i patients , respectively . in group ii patients , they were more closely associated with an undetectable tsh ( 67 % ) or raised free t4 ( 85 % ) level than with raised concentrations of free t3 ( 33 % ) , t4 ( 26 % ) , or t3 ( 0 % ) . the use of high sensitivity tsh assays will permit more accurate adjustment of t4 replacement and minimize abnormalities in peripheral tissue biochemistry indicative of overtreatment . 
massive plasma arginine vasopressin ( avp ) removal during hemofiltration stimulates avp secretion in humans . arginine vasopressin ( avp ) was measured in the plasma and its ultrafiltrate in 11 patients with end-stage renal failure treated by hemofiltration . nineteen liters of ultrafiltrate were produced in 170 min and continuously replaced by an isoosmotic substitution fluid to maintain constant body weight . plasma and ultrafiltrate avp concentrations were not significantly different and did not change with time . the avp clearance rate due to hemofiltration was 114 + / - 2.6 ( + / - se ) ml / min , which represented more than two thirds of the predicted mcr in these patients . corrected plasma osmolality , body weight , mean blood pressure , hematocrit , and pra did not change during the hemofiltration session . these results indicate that there is a compensatory increase in avp production which maintains plasma avp unchanged in response to the increased mcr resulting from hemofiltration . the responsible stimulus could be a direct effect of the decrease in plasma avp on the avp-secreting neurones . alternatively , ultrafiltration itself , via the hemodynamic changes it produces or the loss of an unrecognized inhibitory substance , may be the stimulus to avp secretion . 
testosterone-related exacerbation of a prolactin-producing macroadenoma : possible role for estrogen . men with prl-producing macroadenomas often present with hypogonadism and impotence . this report documents exacerbation of a prl-secreting tumor after two separate 200-mg testosterone enanthate ( t ) injections despite continued bromocriptine ( brc ) therapy . a 37-yr-old man with a 60-mm invasive tumor and a serum prl level of 13 , 969 + / - 332 ng / ml ( mean + / - sd ) responded to brc therapy with rapid disappearance of visual field defect , headache , and facial pain as well as decrease in serum prl to 5 , 103 + / - 1 , 446 ng / ml . t injection was followed by severe headache , facial pain , and increase in prl to 13 , 471 ng / ml . visual field deterioration and increased tumor size ( height , 40-43 mm ) by computed tomography were documented . a relationship between t injection and exacerbation of the prolactinoma was not recognized until after a second t injection 3 months later . after that therapy , baseline prl increased from 6 , 900 to 12 , 995 ng / ml . the hypothesis that t was aromatized to estradiol , directly stimulating lactotrophs , was supported by an increase in serum estradiol from 24 to 51 pg / ml after the second t injection . although t treatment is accepted as appropriate therapy for hypogonadism in men with prolactinomas , it may not only interfere with the response of the tumor to brc therapy , but even stimulate tumor growth and secretion . 
depression of action potential characteristics and a decreased space constant are present in postischemic , reperfused myocardium . brief periods of ischemia and reperfusion may lead to arrhythmias and delayed epicardial activation . to determine the nature of the electrophysiologic substrate and to gain insight into potential mechanisms underlying the electrophysiologic and hemodynamic abnormalities that develop in this setting , standard microelectrode techniques were used to measure action potential characteristics , conduction velocity , and space constants in canine isolated epicardial preparations removed after a 15-min anterior descending artery occlusion and 20-min reflow period in vivo . our results demonstrate a significant reduction in conduction velocity ( 0.78 + / - 0.38 vs . 0.31 + / - 0.12 m / s , p less than 0.001 ) , space constant ( 1.05 + / - 0.42 vs . 0.45 + / - 0.12 mm , p = 0.004 ) , resting membrane potential ( 81.3 + / - 2.5 vs . 61.7 + / - 7.8 mv , p less than 0.001 ) , action potential amplitude ( 94.1 + / - 4.2 vs . 64.1 + / - 1.5 mv , p less than 0.001 ) , and dv / dt ( 164.7 + / - 37.3 vs . 52.6 + / - 19.7 v / s , p less than 0.001 ) in postischemic reperfused myocardium . the space constant and dv / dt each correlated with conduction velocity ; in addition , the space constant was an independent predictor of conduction velocity in these tissues . these electrophysiologic abnormalities may play a role in the arrhythmias and abnormalities of contraction present in postischemic , reperfused myocardium . 
endotoxin enhances tissue factor and suppresses thrombomodulin expression of human vascular endothelium in vitro . endotoxemia is frequently associated clinically with disseminated intravascular coagulation ( dic ) ; however , the mechanism of endotoxin action in vivo is unclear . modulation of tissue factor ( tf ) and thrombomodulin ( tm ) expression on the endothelial surface may be relevant pathophysiologic mechanisms . stimulation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells with endotoxin ( 1 microgram / ml ) increased surface tf activity from 1.52 + / - 0.84 to 11.89 + / - 8.12 mu / ml-10 ( 6 ) cells at 6 h ( n = 11 ) which returned to baseline by 24 h . repeated stimulation at 24 h resulted in renewed tf expression . endotoxin ( 1 microgram / ml ) also caused a decrease in tm expression to 55.0 + / - 6.4 % of control levels at 24 h ( n = 10 ) that remained depressed at 48 h . both effects were dose and serum dependent . a temporary rise in tf expression accompanied by a sustained fall in tm expression comprise a shift in the hemostatic properties of the endothelium that would favor intravascular coagulation and may contribute to the pathogenesis of dic in gram-negative septicemia . 
urea permeability of mammalian inner medullary collecting duct system and papillary surface epithelium . to compare passive urea transport across the inner medullary collecting ducts ( imcds ) and the papillary surface epithelium ( pse ) of the kidney , two determinants of passive transport were measured , namely permeability coefficient and surface area . urea permeability was measured in isolated perfused imcds dissected from carefully localized sites along the inner medullas of rats and rabbits . mean permeability coefficients ( x 10 ( -5 ) cm / s ) in rat imcds were : outer third of inner medulla ( imcd1 ) , 1.6 + / - 0.5 ; middle third ( imcd2 ) , 46.6 + / - 10.5 ; and inner third ( imcd3 ) , 39.1 + / - 3.6 . mean permeability coefficients in rabbit imcds were : imcd1 , 1.2 + / - 0.1 ; imcd2 , 11.6 + / - 2.8 ; and imcd3 , 13.1 + / - 1.8 . the rabbit pse was dissected free from the underlying renal inner medulla and was mounted in a specially designed chamber to measure its permeability to urea . the mean value was 1 x 10 ( -5 ) cm / s both in the absence and presence of vasopressin ( 10 nm ) . morphometry of renal papillary cross sections revealed that the total surface area of imcds exceeds the total area of the pse by 10-fold in the rat and threefold in the rabbit . we conclude : the imcd displays axial heterogeneity with respect to urea permeability , with a high permeability only in its distal two-thirds ; and because the urea permeability and surface area of the pse are relatively small , passive transport across it is unlikely to be a major source of urea to the inner medullary interstitium . 
sialic acid glycoproteins inhibit in vitro and in vivo replication of rotaviruses . we investigated the interactions of rotaviruses with glycoproteins and cells that support rotaviral replication . we found that a wide range of naturally occurring glycoproteins , including ovalbumins and ovomucoids from chicken and turkey eggs , and mucin derived from bovine submaxillary glands , inhibit the replication of rotaviruses in ma-104 cells . our studies further indicated that the glycoproteins bind directly to rotaviruses and that virus-glycoprotein binding is dependent largely upon interactions with sialic acid oligosaccharides . we found that accessible sialic acid oligosaccharides are required for efficient rotavirus infection of ma-104 cells , thus demonstrating that sialic acid oligosaccharides play an important role in the interactions of rotaviruses with both glycoproteins and cells that support rotaviral replication . bovine submaxillary mucin and chicken ovoinhibitor can also prevent the shedding of rotavirus antigen and the development of rotavirus gastroenteritis in a mouse model of rotavirus infection . our findings document that a range of glycoproteins inhibit the in vivo and in vitro replication of rotaviruses and suggest that the alteration in the quantity or chemical composition of intestinal glycoproteins is a potential means for the modulation of enteric infections . 
calcitonin stimulation of renal 25-hydroxyvitamin d-1 alpha-hydroxylase activity in hypophosphatemic mice . evidence that the regulation of calcitriol production is not universally abnormal in x-linked hypophosphatemia . hypophosphatemia ( hyp ) mice have defective regulation of 25 ( oh ) d-1 alpha-hydroxylase activity in response to hypophosphatemia , hypocalcemia , and parathyroid hormone ( pth ) administration . however , recent observations support the existence of anatomically distinct , independently regulated renal 1 alpha-hydroxylase systems in mammalian proximal convoluted and straight tubules . to more completely define the extent of the 1 alpha-hydroxylase regulatory defect in hyp-mice , we compared enzyme maximum velocity in normal and mutants after infusion of calcitonin . upon stimulation , renal 1 alpha-hydroxylase activity increased to similar levels in normal and hyp-mouse renal homogenates . moreover , time-course and dose-dependence studies revealed similar patterns of response in the animal models . subsequently , we examined whether pth and calcitonin stimulatory effects on enzyme activity are mediated through different mechanisms . in both animal models administration of pth and calcitonin increased enzyme activity to levels greater than those obtained after maximal stimulation by either hormone alone , consistent with additive effects . these observations indicate that a calcitonin-sensitive component of 1 alpha-hydroxylase is not compromised in the x-linked hypophosphatemic syndrome . 
studies on the mechanism of omega-hydroxylation of platelet 12-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ( 12-hete ) by unstimulated neutrophils . stimulated platelets , in the presence or absence of aspirin , synthesize significant quantities of 12-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ( 12-hete ) , which is chemotactic and chemokinetic , and enhances mononuclear cell procoagulant activity . during a cell-cell interaction between stimulated platelets and unstimulated neutrophils , platelet 12-hete is metabolized to 12 , 20-dihydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ( 12 , 20-dihete ) by neutrophils . characteristics of the enzyme system in unstimulated neutrophils responsible for this omega-hydroxylation were investigated . a broad range of cytochrome p-450 inhibitors , as well as leukotriene b4 , blocked formation of 12 , 20-dihete . owing largely to released proteases , neutrophil homogenization abolished activity . pretreatment with diisopropylfluorophosphate preserved activity in neutrophil homogenates . omega-hydroxylation of 12-hete was confined solely to the microsomal fraction . specific activity increased 6.6-fold compared with neutrophil sonicates . the electron donor nadph was a required cofactor . these results indicate that the enzyme in unstimulated human neutrophils , which metabolizes 12-hete from stimulated platelets to 12 , 20-dihete in this cell-cell interaction , is a cytochrome p-450 monooxygenase . 
independent effects of aldosterone and potassium on induction of potassium adaptation in rat kidney . we examined the independent effects of a high potassium diet and increased aldosterone levels on the development of renal potassium adaptation . this condition is defined by the increased ability of the kidneys to excrete an acute infusion of potassium . rats were adrenalectomized ( adx ) and received aldosterone at basal levels ( 0.5 microgram / 100 g x d ) or at high levels ( 2.0 micrograms / 100 g x d ) for 10 d . in each experimental group , animals received either a control diet or a high potassium diet . in adx animals with basal aldosterone levels , a high potassium intake increased but did not completely restore the ability to excrete potassium and induced proliferation of the basolateral membrane of principal cells in the collecting tubule ( i.e. , morphologic adaptation ) . in contrast , increased aldosterone did not induce functional adaptation . elevated aldosterone and dietary potassium intake were required to produce functional potassium adaptation indistinguishable from that in potassium-loaded , adrenal-intact animals . 
increased expression of complement decay-accelerating factor during activation of human neutrophils . decay-accelerating factor ( daf ) is a membrane protein that protects blood cells from damage by autologous complement . using monoclonal antibodies in both direct-binding studies and flow cytometry , we found that resting neutrophils ( polymorphonuclear leukocytes [ pmn ] ) expressed 10 ( 4 ) daf molecules on their surface , and that surface daf expression more than doubled when the cells were activated . upregulation of surface daf occurred within minutes , paralleled the upregulation of complement receptor types 1 and 3 ( cr1 and cr3 ) , and was not dependent on new protein synthesis . it was unaffected by edta but was inhibited by 10 microm trifluoperazine , suggesting involvement of intracellular ca2+ and calmodulin or protein kinase c . upon activation , the affected pmn lacking surface daf from patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobulinuria failed to increase daf expression . in contrast , these cells increased cr1 and cr3 expression normally , suggesting that daf deficiency in affected cells involves abnormal synthesis or packaging of daf for intracellular storage . translocation of daf to the cell surface induced by chemoattractants may be important in allowing pmn to survive and function at inflammatory sites where there is rapid complement turnover . 
stimulation of inositol trisphosphate and diacylglycerol production in renal tubular cells by parathyroid hormone . parathyroid hormone ( pth ) produced a dose-dependent immediate stimulation of inositol triphosphate and diacylglycerol production in the opossum kidney cell line , primary culture proximal tubular cells , and basolateral membranes from canine proximal tubular segments . the increase in inositol triphosphate production was accompanied by a minor increase in inositol phosphate and no significant increase in inositol bisphosphate production . associated with the changes in inositol triphosphate and diacylglycerol , there was an immediate hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4'5-bisphosphate . the effect on phospholipid hydrolysis was followed by stimulation of phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol 4 ' monophosphate and phosphatidylinositol . pth produced a sudden increase in cytoplasmic ca2+ in opossum kidney cells that persisted for approximately 1 min . inositol triphosphate transiently increased cytoplasmic ca2+ in saponin-treated opossum kidney and primary culture proximal tubule cells . the effects of pth were not mimicked by cyclic nucleotides . in fact , cyclic amp appeared to diminish inositol triphosphate production . these results demonstrate that pth may activate renal tubular epithelial cells by the production of inositol triphosphate and diacylglycerol . 
extended major histocompatibility complex haplotypes in patients with gluten-sensitive enteropathy . we have studied major histocompatibility complex markers in randomly ascertained caucasian patients with gluten-sensitive enteropathy and their families . the frequencies of extended haplotypes , defined as haplotypes of specific hla-b , dr , bf , c2 , c4a , and c4b allelic combinations , occurring more frequently than expected , were compared on patient chromosomes , on normal chromosomes from the study families , and on chromosomes from normal families . over half of patient chromosomes consisted almost entirely of two extended haplotypes [ hla-b8 , dr3 , sc01 ] and [ hla-b44 , dr7 , fc31 ] which , with nonextended hla-dr7 , accounted for the previously observed hla markers of this disease : hla-b8 , dr3 , and dr7 . there was no increase in hla-dr3 on nonextended haplotypes or in other extended haplotypes with hla-dr3 or dr7 . the distribution of homozygotes and heterozygotes for hla-dr3 and dr7 was consistent with recessive inheritance of the major histocompatibility complex-linked susceptibility gene for gluten-sensitive enteropathy . on the other hand , by odds ratio analysis and from the sum of dr3 and dr7 homozygotes compared with dr3 / dr7 heterozygotes , there was an increase in heterozygotes and a decrease in homozygotes suggesting the presence of modifying phenomena . 
steroid-sensitive mechanism of soluble immune response suppressor production in steroid-responsive nephrotic syndrome . soluble immune response suppressor ( sirs ) , a lymphokine that suppresses antibody production and delayed type hypersensitivity in vivo , has been detected in urine and serum from certain patients with nephrotic syndrome . in the present paper , the relationship between sirs production and nephrotic syndrome is further characterized . a striking correlation was found between detection of sirs and the presence of steroid-responsive nephrotic syndrome ( srns ) . a potential mechanism of sirs production in srns patients was identified , in that lymphocytes from patients produced sirs without requiring activation by exogenous agents , and incubation of normal lymphocytes with serum from patients activated the cells to secrete sirs in culture . although sirs disappears rapidly from urine or serum after initiation of corticosteroid therapy , hydrocortisone ( 10 ( -6 ) -10 ( -7 ) m ) did not block secretion of sirs by activated suppressor cells . it did , however , inhibit in vitro activation of lymphocytes to produce sirs by concanavalin a , interferon , or srns patient serum . the association of suppressor cell activation with srns and the sensitivity of both to steroids suggest that the pathogeneses of albuminuria and sirs production are related . 
reperfusion after acute coronary occlusion in dogs impairs endothelium-dependent relaxation to acetylcholine and augments contractile reactivity in vitro . endothelial injury may contribute to the augmented coronary vascular tone seen in myocardial ischemia by impairing endothelial production or release of vasodilators . in vitro reactivity of arterial rings was studied after 60 min of coronary occlusion and 60 min of reperfusion in anesthetized dogs . ischemia without reperfusion blunted contractile reactivity to potassium chloride ( kcl ) , whereas ischemia plus reperfusion augmented contractile responses to both kcl and ergonovine . the response to acetylcholine , an endothelium-dependent vasodilator , was abolished in reperfused arteries , whereas the response to nitroprusside , an endothelium-independent vasodilator , was intact . verapamil pretreatment restored kcl contractile responses to normal in reperfused coronary rings and partially restored endothelium-dependent relaxation . electron microscopy revealed a nondenuding epicardial coronary endothelial injury in reperfused arteries . these data support the hypothesis that reperfusion of ischemic myocardium augments reactivity to vasoconstrictor agents by causing endothelial cell damage , excessive calcium influx , and loss of modulating vasodilator function . 
mapping the lowe oculocerebrorenal syndrome to xq24-q26 by use of restriction fragment length polymorphisms . a molecular linkage analysis of four large families with the lowe oculocerebrorenal syndrome ( ls ) provided a subregional localization of ls to the distal long arm of the x chromosome at xq24-q26 . probes from two loci that identify restriction fragment length polymorphisms ( rflps ) and map to xq24-q26 showed no recombination with ls . a maximum likelihood recombination distance ( theta ) = 0.00 was obtained for dxs10 with the logarithm of the odds ( lod ) of 6.450 . for dxs42 , theta = 0.00 with a lod of 5.087 . assignment of the gene or genes for ls to xq24-q26 has the potential of improving carrier detection and providing prenatal diagnosis in families at risk for the disease . 
human recombinant erythropoietin promotes differentiation of murine megakaryocytes in vitro . to determine if erythropoietin affects megakaryocytopoiesis , we measured acetylcholinesterase ( ache ) activity , a marker of the murine megakaryocytic lineage , after the addition of human recombinant erythropoietin to serumless murine bone marrow cultures . erythropoietin increased ache activity substantially . moreover , when the hormone was added to serumless cultures of 426 isolated single megakaryocytes derived from megakaryocytic colonies , erythropoietin induced a significant increase in the diameters of these cells . from a bayesian analysis of the likelihood that some megakaryocytes increased in dna content during the culture period , we estimate that 61 % of the cells increased in ploidy . these data indicate that the action of erythropoietin is not restricted to the erythroid lineage . 
low sodium diet corrects the defect in lymphocyte beta-adrenergic responsiveness in hypertensive subjects . to determine the role of dietary sodium intake in the reduction in beta-adrenergic sensitivity in hypertension , lymphocyte beta-receptors from 8 borderline hypertensive and 16 normotensive subjects were studied after 5 d on a high sodium diet ( 400 meq / d ) and also following a low sodium diet ( 10 meq / d ) . during the high sodium diet , lymphocyte beta-receptor-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity , expressed as the relative increase over basal levels stimulated by the beta-agonist isoproterenol , was significantly ( p less than 0.025 ) decreased in hypertensive ( 24 + / - 5 % , mean + / - se ) compared with normotensive ( 42 + / - 4 % ) subjects . neither beta-receptor density nor the proportion of nonsequestered beta-receptors differed between groups . a low sodium diet significantly increased beta-receptor-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in hypertensives ( low sodium , 51 + / - 7 % ; high sodium , 24 + / - 5 % , p less than 0.025 ) to a level not different than that of normotensives ( 46 + / - 5 % ) . thus , reduced lymphocyte beta-receptor responsiveness in hypertensive subjects is not due to beta-receptor sequestration and is corrected on a low sodium diet . dietary sodium may be an important factor in the beta-receptor defect in early hypertension . 
intracellular conversion of thyroxine to triiodothyronine is required for the optimal thermogenic function of brown adipose tissue . the effect of thyroxine ( t4 ) and triiodothyronine ( t3 ) on the expression of uncoupling protein ( ucp ) in rat brown adipose tissue ( bat ) has been examined . thyroidectomized rats have a threefold reduction in basal ucp levels . when exposed to cold , they become hypothermic and show a fivefold lower response of ucp than euthyroid controls . t3 augments the basal levels and the response of ucp and its mrna to cold in a dose-dependent manner . however , to normalize the response of ucp , t3 has to be given in a dosage that produces systemic hyperthyroidism . mere t3 replacement corrects the systemic hypothyroidism but not the hypothermia or the low levels of ucp . in contrast , replacement doses of t4 prevent the hypothermia and correct the ucp level . both effects of t4 are blocked by preventing t4 to t3 conversion in bat . thus , the optimal ucp response to cold and protection against hypothermia require a high bat t3 concentration , which is attained from euthyroid levels of t4 via the activation of the bat t4 5'deiodinase during cold exposure , but not from euthyroid plasma t3 levels . 
complete complementary dna-derived amino acid sequence of canine cardiac phospholamban . complementary dna ( cdna ) clones specific for phospholamban of sarcoplasmic reticulum membranes have been isolated from a canine cardiac cdna library . the amino acid sequence deduced from the cdna sequence indicates that phospholamban consists of 52 amino acid residues and lacks an amino-terminal signal sequence . the protein has an inferred mol wt 6 , 080 that is in agreement with its apparent monomeric mol wt 6 , 000 , estimated previously by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis . phospholamban contains two distinct domains , a hydrophilic region at the amino terminus ( domain i ) and a hydrophobic region at the carboxy terminus ( domain ii ) . we propose that domain i is localized at the cytoplasmic surface and offers phosphorylatable sites whereas domain ii is anchored into the sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane . 
effect of formate on volume reabsorption in the rabbit proximal tubule . studies on microvillus membrane from rabbit kidney cortex suggest that chloride absorption may occur by chloride / formate exchange with recycling of formic acid by nonionic diffusion . we tested whether this transport mechanism participates in active nacl reabsorption in the rabbit proximal tubule . in proximal tubule s2 segments perfused with low hco-3 solutions , the addition of formate ( 0.25-0.5 mm ) to the lumen and the bath increased volume reabsorption ( jv ) by 60 % ; the transepithelial potential difference remained unchanged . the effect of formate on jv was completely reversible and was inhibited both by ouabain and by luminal 4 , 4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2 , 2'-disulfonate . formate ( 0.5 mm ) failed to stimulate jv in early proximal convoluted tubules perfused with high hco-3 solutions . as measured by miniature glass ph microelectrodes , this lack of formate effect on jv was related to a less extensive acidification of the tubule fluid when high hco-3 solutions were used as perfusate . these data suggest that chloride / formate exchange with recycling of formic acid by nonionic diffusion represents a mechanism for active , electroneutral nacl reabsorption in the proximal tubule . 
different hematologic phenotypes are associated with the leftward ( -alpha 4.2 ) and rightward ( -alpha 3.7 ) alpha+-thalassemia deletions . we have compared the phenotypes of the two common deletion forms of alpha+-thalassemia by analysis of umbilical cord blood samples from melanesia . homozygotes for the leftward , 4.2-kilobase , deletion ( -alpha 4.2 ) had significantly higher levels of hb bart 's at birth than homozygotes for the rightward , 3.7-kilobase , deletion ( -alpha 3.7 ) . compound heterozygotes for each deletion had intermediate values . although deletion forms of alpha 0 thalassemia were not found in this survey , nondeletion alpha-thalassemia was present at low frequency . since the predominant rightward deletion in this population , -alpha 3.7iii , entirely removes the alpha 1-gene and the 4.2-kilobase deletion deletes the alpha 2-gene , these data indicate that the alpha 2-globin gene has a higher output than the alpha 1-gene , on single alpha-gene chromosomes . 
complementation analysis of fatty acid oxidation disorders . we assayed [ 9 , 10 ( n ) -3h ] palmitate oxidation by fibroblast monolayers from patients with fatty acid oxidation disorders . activities in the different disorders were ( percent control ) : short-chain acyl-coenzyme a ( coa ) dehydrogenase deficiency ( 115 % ) , medium chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency ( 18 % ) , long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency ( 28 % ) , multiple acyl-coa dehydrogenation disorder , mild and severe variants ( 49 % and 7 % ) , and palmityl-carnitine transferase deficiency ( 4 % ) . multiple acyl-coa dehydrogenation disorder , medium chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase-deficient lines , and long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase-deficient lines all complemented one another after polyethylene glycol fusion , with average activity increases of 31-83 % . we detected two complementation groups in the severe multiple acyl-coa dehydrogenation disorder lines , consistent with deficiencies of either electron transfer flavoprotein or electron transfer flavoprotein : ubiquinone oxidoreductase . the metabolic block in the latter cell lines is threefold more severe than in the former ( p less than 0.001 ) . no intragenic complementation was observed within either group . we assigned two patients with previously unreported severe multiple acyl-coa dehydrogenation disorder to the electron transfer flavoprotein : ubiquinone oxido-reductase-deficient group . 
abnormal apical cell membrane in cystic fibrosis respiratory epithelium . an in vitro electrophysiologic analysis . the transepithelial chloride permeability of airway and sweat ductal epithelium has been reported to be decreased in patients with cystic fibrosis ( cf ) . in the present study , we investigated whether the airway epithelial defect was in the cell path by characterizing the relative ion permeabilities of the apical membrane of respiratory epithelial cells from cf and normal subjects . membrane electric potential difference ( pd ) and the responses to luminal cl- replacement , isoproterenol , and amiloride were measured with intracellular microelectrodes . the pd across the apical barrier was smaller for cf ( -11 mv ) than normal ( -29 mv ) epithelia whereas the pd across the basolateral barrier was similar , ( -26 and -34 mv respectively ) . in contrast to normal nasal epithelium , the apical membrane in cf epithelia was not cl- permselective and was not responsive to isoproterenol . amiloride , a selective na+ channel blocker , induced a larger apical membrane hyperpolarization and a greater increase in transepithelial resistance in cf epithelia . both reduced apical cell membrane cl- conductance and increased na+ conductance appear to contribute to the abnormal function of respiratory epithelia of cf patients . 
tissue and cellular basis for impaired bone formation in aluminum-related osteomalacia in the pig . bone formation is impaired in aluminum-associated bone disease . reductions in the number of osteoblasts or in the function of individual osteoblasts could account for this finding . thus , quantitative bone histology and measurements of bone formation were done at three skeletal sites in piglets given aluminum ( al ) parenterally , 1.5 mg / kg per d , for 8 wk ( al , n = 4 ) and in control animals ( c , n = 4 ) . bone al was 241 + / - 40 mg / kg per dry weight in al and 1.6 + / - 0.9 in c , p less than 0.001 . all al-treated animals developed osteomalacia with increases in osteoid seam width , osteoid volume , and mineralization lag time at each skeletal site , p less than 0.05 vs . c for all values . mineralized bone formation at the tissue level was lower in al than in c , p less than 0.05 for each skeletal site , due to reductions in active bone forming surface . bone formation at the cellular level was similar in each group , however , and total osteoid production by osteoblasts did not differ in c and al . aluminum impairs the formation of mineralized bone in vivo by decreasing the number of active osteoblasts , and this change can be distinguished from the effect of aluminum to inhibit , either directly or indirectly , the calcification of osteoid . 
histological and immunocytochemical study of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ( cin ) with associated hpv 6 and hpv 16 infections . histological and immunocytochemical features of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ( cin ) associated with hpv 6 and hpv 16 , either singly or in combination , were studied in 48 cases . features of hpv infection ( koilocytosis , binucleation , multinucleation , giant irregular nuclei and individual cell dyskeratosis ) were present in high prevalence in both hpv 6 and hpv 16 associated cin . abnormal mitoses seemed to be a good indicator of cin and were present in about 50 % of cases of cin associated with either hpv 6 or hpv 16 infection . this finding provides no support for the view held by some investigators that associated hpv 16 infection can be predicted by the presence of abnormal mitoses . expression of hpv antigen was shown in about 40 % of cases with a slight , but not significantly , higher prevalence in cases of combined hpv 6 and hpv 16 infection . conventional histology and immunocytochemistry could not distinguish cin associated with hpv 6 from cin associated with hpv 16 infection . 
idiopathic membranous glomerulonephritis : aspects of geographical differences . clinicopathological studies of 89 cases of idiopathic membranous glomerulonephritis was carried out to investigate the clinical and histopathological characteristics of the disease . the results were compared with those of previous published reports to observe whether any difference between japanese and caucasian patients exists . there were no obvious differences as to main clinical features , although an apparently better prognosis in our data was observed during long term follow up . in renal biopsy findings , especially glomerular capillary wall injuries , the prevalence of advanced electron microscopic stages ( stages iii and iv ) was higher in the japanese cases . a higher rate of clinical remission was observed in the treated group . it was concluded that japanese cases had an obviously better prognosis despite having more advanced histological findings than the caucasian patients . 
effects of age and smoking on intima of muscular pulmonary arteries . the lungs of twenty three subjects , 12 non-smokers and 11 smokers , age range 19-81 years , were studied . all were free from cardiopulmonary disease . the cross sectionally cut muscular pulmonary arteries of each subject were measured in sections obtained from 12 representative tissue blocks using a digitiser . intimal area was measured and artery size defined as total length of internal elastic lamina ( iel ) . intimal abnormality was expressed in the form of an intima index calculated by dividing intimal area by the area enclosed by the iel in its theoretically unwrinkled state . mean intima indices were calculated for arteries in four size groups : less than or equal to 600 micron , 601-1200 micron , 1201-1800 micron and greater than 1800 micron length of iel . for all subjects intimal abnormality was most severe in the smallest muscular pulmonary arteries ; values for mean intima indices decreased with increasing size of artery . there were no lobar differences . the amount of intimal abnormality increases with age in all sizes of artery : in the 600 micron size group this could average a 32 % reduction in lumen calibre in those aged 60 or more . we were unable to detect any correlation between intimal abnormality and the subject 's smoking history . 
acute idiopathic interstitial myocarditis : case report with special reference to morphological characteristics of giant cells . necropsy findings of an acute fatal case of idiopathic interstitial myocarditis were reported . the patient was a 33 year old housewife who had acute cardiac failure on the sixteenth day after the onset of the disease . necropsy showed important pathological changes confined to the heart . both ventricles were affected by confluent granulomas with an ill defined patchy appearance . histologically these lesions consisted of round cells , histiocytes , eosinophils and myogenic giant cells . the findings were compatible with those of interstitial myocarditis associated with a proliferation of giant cells . both atriums were also affected to a minor extent , detectable only by histological examination . electron microscopy and cytochemistry showed that most giant cells noted in the lesion showed myofibrils and primary lysosomes in the cytoplasm . giant cells were positive for myoglobin . though the macrophage origin of the giant cell in this disorder has been emphasised in a recent report , these cytological results suggest that giant cells observed in the cardiac granulomatous lesions of this case were mainly myogenic in origin . 
necropsy study of mountaineering accidents in scotland . one hundred and twenty one people died in mountaineering accidents in scotland between july 1978 and december 1983. necropsies were carried out on 42 , which form the basis of this report . in 21 cases head injury was major fatality factor , but in 11 of these there were also serious chest injuries . focal brain damage ( haematomas , contusions , or lacerations ) was more common ( n = 21 ) than diffuse brain damage ( n = 18 ) . over half of the victims with severe head injury had few other injuries and would probably have survived had the head injury been prevented . spinal injuries usually occurred with other major injuries . chest injuries were common , being serious in 18 cases , but abdominal injuries were uncommon . four climbers with only minor injuries died of hypothermia . 
necropsy study of infarcts of prostate and prostatic urethra . a prospective study of 100 prostate glands taken at necropsy showed evidence of vascular disorders in 14. in 12 cases there was oedema , haemorrhage , or necrosis of the anterior wall of the prostatic urethra , and in two there was more extensive central infarction . there had been a period of hypotension in all 14 cases , at least 12 had had urethral catheterisation , and seven had had an operation within a month of death , four of which were for repairs of ruptured aortic aneurysm . affected glands were the same size as a group of unaffected glands . we suggest that the prostatic urethra is at risk of ischaemia in hypotensive patients with a urethral catheter . this may be a contributory factor in urethral strictures after cardiovascular surgery . 
hypersensitivity to carbamazepine presenting as pseudolymphoma . an unusually severe hypersensitivity reaction to carbamazepine is described , in which the patient presented with lymphadenopathy , hepatosplenomegaly , bone marrow suppression , immunosuppression and other features strongly suggestive of a lymphoma . 
serum angiotensin converting enzyme in pneumonias . serum concentrations of angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) were studied in pneumonias caused by different pathogens and in cases in which the aetiology could not be defined . in all aetiological groups , except in viral pneumonia , there was a significant increase in ace during recovery ( p less than 0.001 ) . in several patients the lowest values during the acute phase of disease and the highest values during recovery were outside the reference limits . in cases with known aetiology the highest ace values and the difference between the lowest and the highest values correlated positively with c-reactive protein concentrations at admission ( p less than 0.001 ) . the pathophysiology behind the fluctuations of the ace concentrations is unknown . 
interactive roles of monovalent and divalent cations in pathogenesis of hypertension caused by alcohol . subjects whose daily alcohol intake varied from less than 22 g to over 88 g were studied . they differed in their mean systolic and diastolic blood pressures compared with those of controls who were teetotallers . the association between alcohol consumption and blood pressure was independent of age . ex-alcohol users who were much older than current alcohol users had lower systolic and diastolic blood pressures . the association of body mass index with sustained raised blood pressure was apparent . when body mass index was eliminated as a variable there was an appreciable residual effect on mean arterial pressure . alcohol users and controls did not differ in mean plasma sodium concentration . red blood cell intracellular sodium concentration , however , was higher in beer drinkers than in controls . on the other hand , red blood cell intracellular concentration of magnesium in beer drinkers was decreased . it is suggested that definite interactions between sodium , magnesium , and calcium ions may have some vital roles in the sustained rise in blood pressure in alcohol users . 
ploidy studies in adenomatous polyps of colon [ letter ] 
false positive results with an elisa for detection of chlamydia antigen [ letter ] 
human parvovirus associated with erythroblastopenia in iron deficiency anaemia [ letter ] 
evaluation of strategy for testing thyroid function applied to hypothyroidism [ letter ] 
simplified techniques for identifying campylobacter pyloridis [ letter ] [ see comments ] 
copper disks in cryotherapy [ letter ] 
immunologic enhancers [ letter ] 
capsule dermatopathology : red , white , and ulcerated oral lesions--some considerations for the diagnostic approach . 
chemosurgical report : recurrence ( persistence ) of tumor following excision by mohs surgery . the persistence ( clinical recurrence ) of tumor following excision by mohs surgery may not solely be due to biologic properties of the neoplasm such as multifocality . various technical difficulties intrinsic to the technique that may contribute to recurrence are discussed and illustrated . 
ophthalmologic oncology : conjunctival malignant melanoma in association with sporadic dysplastic nevus syndrome . 
local anesthesia : pain control with proper injection technique . 
conventional grafting combined with minigrafting : a new approach . using a combination of 4.0-mm conventional orentreich punch grafts and minigrafts , the author describes a methodology to achieve a very uniform , untufted look which is usually the end result of conventional grafting alone . advantages and disadvantages are detailed . 
syringoid eccrine carcinoma . syringoid eccrine carcinomas ( secs ) are rare adnexal neoplasms that may display aggressive local recurrence and occasional metastases . this report describes three cases of sec treated by mohs micrographic surgery . 
transepithelial elimination of benign and malignant tumors . transepithelial elimination is a common physiologic mechanism by which the skin rids itself of externally introduced or endogenously generated waste and foreign material . although originally observed mostly as a process of elimination of altered connective tissue , transepithelial elimination has recently been described in deep mycoses , bacterial diseases , and nonspecific and foreign-body granulomas . this report describes transepithelial elimination of benign and malignant tumors . 
a ten-year-old boy with dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans of the face . a rare case of dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans on the face of a 10-year-old boy is presented . the patient 's young age and the localization of the tumor led to limited excisions that resulted in two local recurrences . primary wide excision with 2.5 cm of free margins is recommended to avoid local recurrences that are otherwise frequent . 
three year anatomic , functional and clinical follow-up after successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . because the long-term anatomic effects of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty are unknown , follow-up evaluations including coronary angiography , treadmill exercise testing and rest and bicycle exercise radionuclide angiography were performed in 46 patients 6.3 + / - 2.0 and 37.6 + / - 3.6 ( mean + / - sd ) months after they had undergone successful single lesion angioplasty . the severity of the coronary stenosis decreased significantly at each evaluation ; the mean diameter stenosis was 66 + / - 13 % before angioplasty , 30 + / - 13 % immediately after and 26 + / - 16 % and 19 + / - 13 % at 6 months and 3 years , respectively . exercise time increased from 9.8 + / - 4.4 minutes before angioplasty to 18.3 + / - 4.5 minutes immediately after the procedure and remained at that level at 6 months ( 20.3 + / - 4.6 minutes ) and 3 years ( 18.2 + / - 4.5 minutes ) . left ventricular ejection fraction during exercise decreased 4 + / - 6 % compared with rest before angioplasty , but increased 7 + / - 7 % immediately after angioplasty and this increase was maintained at 6 months ( + / - 6 + / - 7 % ) and 3 years ( + / - 4 + / - 6 % ) . before angioplasty , 1 patient was in canadian heart association functional class 0 , 15 were in class ii , 24 in class iii and 6 in class iv . three years later , 25 were in class 0 , 10 in class i , 7 in class ii and 4 in class iii . these results indicate that the short-term anatomic and functional success of coronary angioplasty is maintained for at least 3 years . 
development and experimental application of contact probe catheter for laser angioplasty . a sapphire contact probe laser catheter was developed to increase the dimensions of tunnels created by laser angioplasty . the device consisted of a round sapphire probe ( 2.2 mm diameter ) attached to an 8f catheter into which a 0.2 mm optical fiber was inserted with a tip maintained at 3 mm from the sapphire . the fiber was connected to a continuous wave neodymium yttrium aluminum garnet ( nd-yag ) laser . a saline perfusate was circulated through the catheter during laser emissions to prevent excessive heating of the fiber tip . the system was used in vitro on 16 sections of atherosclerotic calcified human cadaver aortic walls , using diluted blood as a medium , at powers ranging from 10 to 40 w and exposure times from 1 to 4 seconds . six craters were created at each energy level . the system was also used on six human cadaver , agar-embedded , obstructed iliac and femoral arteries , using 40 w and 2 second laser emissions . dimensions of probe-created craters were compared with those obtained using bare fibers . the shape of the probe craters was that of a truncated cone with the entry hole wider than the exit , as opposed to the cylindrical shape created with unmodified bare fibers . at 120 j ( seconds x watts ) , areas of entry and exit probe-formed holes were greater than those created with the bare fibers ( 6.7 + / - 0.5 and 3.4 + / - 0.6 versus 0.2 + / - 0.01 mm2 , respectively , p less than 0.001 ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
myocardial thallium-201 kinetics and regional flow alterations with 3 hours of coronary occlusion and either rapid reperfusion through a totally patent vessel or slow reperfusion through a critical stenosis . myocardial thallium-201 kinetics and regional blood flow alterations were examined in a canine model using 3 hours of coronary occlusion and different methods of reperfusion . group i comprised 10 dogs undergoing a 3 hour left anterior descending artery occlusion and no reperfusion . group ii comprised seven dogs undergoing 3 hours of left anterior descending artery occlusion and rapid reperfusion through a totally patent vessel . group iii comprised 10 dogs undergoing 3 hours of left anterior descending artery occlusion and slow reperfusion through a residual stenosis . all dogs received 1.5 mci of thallium-201 after 40 minutes of coronary occlusion . during occlusion and 2 hours of reperfusion , serial hemodynamic , blood flow and myocardial thallium-201 activity measurements were made . the relative thallium-201 gradient ( normal zone minus ischemic zone activity when initial normal activity is expressed as 100 % ) during left anterior descending coronary occlusion was similar in all groups . group i , 87 + / - 3 % ; group ii , 78 + / - 6 % ; group iii , 83 + / - 6 % ( p = ns ) . after 2 hours of either method of reperfusion , the final relative gradient had decreased to a similar level ( group ii , 51 + / - 9 % ; group iii , 42 + / - 6 % ) . these values were not significantly different from the final relative thallium-201 gradient seen in dogs undergoing a sustained 3 hour occlusion ( group i , 55 + / - 5 % ) . after 2 hours of reperfusion , both methods of reflow were associated with similar degrees of " no reflow . " transmural flows in the central ischemic zone were 89 + / - 10 % of normal in group ii and 71 + / - 6 % of normal in group iii after reperfusion , with both flows substantially higher than the relative thallium-201 activities in these dogs . infarct size ( percent of left ventricle ) determined with triphenyltetrazolium chloride was similar in all groups ( group i , 24 + / - 4 % ; group ii , 29 + / - 4 % ; group iii , 25 + / - 4 % ) . thus , in this experimental canine model , 3 hours of coronary occlusion followed by either rapid reperfusion through a totally patent vessel or slow reperfusion through a critical stenosis resulted in little delayed thallium-201 redistribution or myocardial salvage as assessed histologically , despite significant recovery of regional flow . 
in vivo detection of reperfused myocardium by nuclear magnetic resonance imaging . to assess the potential of in vivo nuclear magnetic resonance imaging for the detection of reperfused myocardium , in vivo t2-weighted spin echo images were obtained of dogs at 0.15 tesla . imaging was done during 3 hours of coronary occlusion ( group i ) , and during 3 hours of coronary occlusion followed by 1 hour of reperfusion ( group ii ) . on sacrifice , the hearts were drained of blood and imaged in situ to determine the effect of in vivo imaging on myocardial signal intensity . the hearts were then excised and imaged at 1.4 tesla to compare the effect of high resolution imaging on image quality . of the six hearts in group i and the eight hearts in group ii with a myocardial infarction and suitable image quality , four of the former hearts and six of the latter demonstrated a small but visible increase in infarct signal intensity at 3 hours of occlusion on the time to echo [ te ] = 60 ms , single echo images . the t2 ( transverse ) relaxation time of the infarct ( measured in vitro by spectrometer ) increased by 13 % when compared with normal tissue . in contrast , the reperfused infarct was more easily visualized , with signal intensity increasing by 31 + / - 17 % and infarct t2 increasing by 20 % . imaged at 1.4 tesla , the excised hearts showed the infarct to be subendocardial during occlusion and extending transmurally with reperfusion . it is concluded that , although visualized , the increase in infarct signal intensity at 3 hours of coronary occlusion is small and this is consistent with the small increase in infarct signal intensity and t2 relaxation . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
application of end-systolic pressure-volume and pressure-wall thickness relations in conscious dogs . the usefulness of end-systolic measures of ventricular function was compared with that of standard contractility indexes in conscious dogs . end-systolic relations between left ventricular pressure and volume and between pressure and wall thickness were analyzed in dogs previously instrumented with ultrasonic crystals . progressive angiotensin infusions were used to generate computer-averaged pressure-volume and pressure-wall thickness loops . both relations were linear in every study and highly reproducible . with low and high dose dobutamine , the end-systolic pressure-volume relations were significantly displaced , with increased slope and inconsistent changes in intercept . this relation was more useful than the ejection fraction for detecting contractility increases at different afterloads , but it showed no advantage over maximal left ventricular dp / dt at all ranges of preload and afterload . the end-systolic pressure-volume relations were insensitive for detecting mild decreases in inotropic state produced by propranolol , and maximal dp / dt was superior for detecting such mild acutely reduced contractility . the end-systolic pressure-wall thickness relations showed displacement with dobutamine , although slope and intercept changes were not significant ; these relations did not detect mild decreases in contractility produced by propranolol . it is concluded that the end-systolic pressure-volume relation and a simplified end-systolic measure using pressure and wall thickness provide sensitive , load-independent and reproducible approaches for defining acute increases in left ventricular contractility in conscious animals . maximal dp / dt was equally effective for defining these increases in contractility and more sensitive for detecting slight acute decreases in contractility . 
responses of sympathetic nerves to programmed ventricular stimulation . ventricular arrhythmias generally result in a decrease in arterial pressure and increases in atrial and ventricular filling pressures which would be expected to induce reflex changes in efferent sympathetic nerve activity to the heart and peripheral circulation . experiments were performed in 14 anesthetized dogs in order to determine whether programmed ventricular stimulation produces changes in renal sympathetic nerve activity ; quantitate these changes ; and determine the cardiovascular reflexes that mediate these changes . arterial and right atrial pressures and renal sympathetic nerve activity were recorded in dogs before and after administration of single and double programmed ventricular stimuli . in a group of 10 dogs after single extrastimuli , diastolic arterial pressure decreased by 18 + / - 2 mm hg ( mean + / - sem ) while renal sympathetic nerve activity increased by 39 + / - 15 impulses / s . these changes were directly related to degree of stimulus prematurity . after double extrastimuli , diastolic arterial pressure decreased by 22 + / - 2 mm hg whereas renal sympathetic activity increased by 55 + / - 8 impulses / s . in an additional four dogs , double extrastimuli decreased arterial pressure ( -34 + / - 1 mm hg ) and increased cardiac ( 86 + / - 16 % ) and renal ( 82 + / - 12 % ) sympathetic traffic . after sinoaortic denervation , neither single nor double programmed ventricular stimuli resulted in alterations in cardiac or renal sympathetic nerve activity . it is concluded that the decreased arterial pressure caused by single and double programmed ventricular stimuli leads to increases in cardiac and renal sympathetic nerve activity that are mediated by sinoaortic baroreflexes . 
the systolic time intervals and risk stratification after acute myocardial infarction . 
value of holter monitoring in predicting long-term efficacy and inefficacy of amiodarone used alone and in combination with class 1a antiarrhythmic agents in patients with ventricular tachycardia . the value of two reported and two new ambulatory electrocardiographic ( holter ) criteria was studied in 80 patients taking amiodarone for refractory recurrent sustained ventricular tachycardia . in the 80 patients , the four holter criteria were as follows : i-85 % or greater reduction of ventricular premature complexes and abolition of couplets and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in 74 patients who had 10 or more ventricular premature complexes / h , or any couplets or nonsustained ventricular tachycardia / 24 hours at baseline ; ii-abolition of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in 51 patients who had nonsustained ventricular tachycardia at baseline ; iii-85 % or greater reduction of ventricular premature complexes and abolition of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in 64 patients who had 30 or more ventricular premature complexes / h at baseline ; and iv-85 % or greater reduction of ventricular premature complexes and abolition of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in 73 patients who had 10 or more ventricular premature complexes / h at baseline . amiodarone was judged effective in , respectively , 51 of 74 , 44 of 51 , 51 of 64 and 61 of 73 patients by criterion i , ii , iii or iv . during the follow-up period ( 19 + / - 20 months ) , there were 19 instances of recurrence of ventricular arrhythmia or sudden death . actuarial arrhythmia-free survival rate at 24 months was 84 , 74 , 86 and 85 % , respectively , in patients with efficacy by criterion i , ii , iii or iv and 61 , 43 , 48 and 39 % , respectively , in patients with inefficacy ( p less than 0.015 for all ) . many patients with efficacy by holter criteria , however , had a recurrence of arrhythmia , suggesting insensitivity of these holter criteria . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
thyroid dysfunction during chronic amiodarone therapy . clinical and laboratory features of 99 patients receiving long-term amiodarone therapy were analyzed to determine which individuals may be at a high risk for developing amiodarone-induced thyroid dysfunction . the group of 68 men and 31 women was followed up for an average of 27 months ( range 3 to 60 ) . there were no differences in age , sex , dose of amiodarone , type or severity of underlying heart disease or baseline serum thyroxine levels in patients who developed hypothyroidism ( n = 32 ) or hyperthyroidism ( n = 5 ) or remained euthyroid ( n = 62 ) . baseline serum thyrotropin levels were statistically higher in patients who became hypothyroid , but there was considerable overlap with the other patient groups . serum reverse triiodothyronine ( reverse t3 ) , which has been suggested to be a marker of amiodarone efficacy , correlated directly with serum thyroxine levels , and was not an independent variable . there was no pattern to the time course for development of thyroid dysfunction , which occurred in 49 % of those followed up and developed as early as 1 month or , in one individual , as late as after 3 years of amiodarone therapy . there are few guidelines for replacement therapy in patients with amiodarone-induced hypothyroidism . l-thyroxine dosage was adjusted cautiously in these high risk individuals to achieve serum thyroxine levels within the reference range of euthyroid individuals taking amiodarone : the mean dosage required was 136 micrograms / day . normalization of serum thyrotropin ( tsh ) would have required doses of l-thyroxine that were judged to be excessively high . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
alterations in left ventricular diastolic function with doxorubicin therapy . to determine whether impaired diastolic function may be an early sign of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity , a retrospective study was performed in 12 patients who had undergone serial radionuclide angiography and were found to have a left ventricular ejection fraction of 55 % or more before doxorubicin ( adriamycin ) treatment and during follow-up . average rapid filling velocity and slow filling velocity were both significantly reduced after doxorubicin treatment . rapid filling velocity decreased from 5.17 + / - 1.52 to 4.18 + / - 0.96 units / s ( p less than 0.01 ) , and slow filling velocity decreased from 2.20 + / - 1.32 to 1.42 + / - 0.62 units / s ( p less than 0.05 ) . there were no significant changes in filling volume ratio , total diastolic time or diastolic time ratio . because a change in left ventricular diastolic function can occur before ejection fraction falls to subnormal levels , diastolic function as well as systolic function should be examined for the early detection of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity . the clinical implications of our observations can only be established by a longer-term prospective analysis of left ventricular function in patients receiving doxorubicin therapy . 
activation of the fibrinolytic system during intracoronary streptokinase administration . serial biochemical studies were performed in 12 patients treated with intracoronary streptokinase infusion for acute myocardial infarction , in order to study the method of activation of the fibrinolytic system during local administration of a relatively low dose of this drug and to determine correlations between systemic effects and reperfusion . plasma samples were obtained before and every 15 minutes during the infusion of streptokinase and after completion of the therapy . streptokinase dosage in this study was 211 , 000 + / - 88 , 000 iu ( + / - sd ) . the average time from the onset of symptoms to the start of infusion was 2 hours 50 minutes ( range 1 hour 10 minutes to 3 hours 30 minutes ) . reperfusion occurred in six patients and temporary recanalization in three ; in three patients no recanalization was achieved . fibrinolytic assays of pretreatment plasma samples revealed elevated levels of plasminogen activators , presumably caused by the release of tissue-type plasminogen activator after a condition of stress . plasminogen concentrations decreased from 94 + / - 17 % to 44 + / - 30 % . alpha 2-antiplasmin fell from 84 + / - 27 % to 12 + / - 19 % ; in seven patients no plasmin inhibitor activity was measurable at the completion of the infusion . free plasmin occurred in samples only when this inhibitor had disappeared . this resulted in a lytic state leading to degradation of fibrinogen , the levels of which fell from 2.9 + / - 0.7 % to 1.5 + / - 1.1 % . fibrinogen degradation products , measured in plasma with monoclonal antibodies , increased exponentially during streptokinase infusion in at least four patients . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
computer technology : state of the art and future trends . computer technology and , more broadly , information technology , are bringing about a fundamental transformation in our society from an industrial economy to an information economy . a review of the short history and present state of information technology identifies two major undercurrents : the miniaturization of computer components , which has produced a millionfold increase in the complexity possible in a single chip of silicon , and the integration of four previously separate areas of information technology : computation , communication , databases and the user interface . microelectronics , computer networks , data storage and user amenities are the basic technologies that support these four areas and stimulate their progress . future trends in speech recognition , voice synthesis , artificial intelligence , expert systems , computational imaging and scientific workstations are also examined . 
acute rupture of myxomatous mitral valve presenting as refractory cardiopulmonary arrest . a 59 year old white woman had an out of hospital sudden cardiac arrest . resuscitation at the scene restored spontaneous pulse , blood pressure and respiration but cardiovascular collapse recurred within 30 minutes of hospital arrival . medically refractory cardiogenic shock of unclear origin prompted the placement of an intraaortic balloon pump , and hemodynamic stabilization was achieved over several hours . acute rupture of the chordae tendineae of myxomatous mitral valve was diagnosed as the cause of the cardiac arrest . mitral valve replacement was performed and the patient made an uneventful recovery . this report describes the first known case of rupture of a myxomatous mitral valve presenting as sudden cardiac death . the differential diagnosis of sudden death in this disorder is reviewed , the role of mechanical circulatory assistance in refractory cardiac arrest is discussed and several interesting hemodynamic aspects of the case are considered . 
atrial septal defect with right to left shunt despite normal pulmonary artery pressure . a 74 year old woman had right to left shunting through an atrial septal defect despite normal right heart pressures . acute volume expansion temporarily reduced the shunt . contrast echocardiography and angiography demonstrated that this shunting occurred almost exclusively from the inferior vena cava . at surgery a redundant flap of septum secundum was found that was adjacent to the inferior vena cava orifice , intercepting its blood return like a spinnaker and shunting it into the left atrium . 
benign congenital intracardiac thyroid and polycystic tumor causing right ventricular outflow tract obstruction and conduction disturbance . a patient with a rare intracardiac tumor arising from the right side of the interventricular septum who developed conduction disturbances and symptoms of right ventricular outflow tract obstruction is reported . the patient was successfully treated with insertion of a permanent pacemaker and surgical removal of the tumor after two-dimensional echocardiography diagnosed the intracardiac mass . pathologic examination confirmed the benign nature of the tumor and showed the unusual features of both ectopic thyroid and benign congenital polycystic tumor . 
two-dimensional and doppler echocardiographic diagnosis of an aortic to right atrial fistula complicating aortic dissection . a 60 year old woman presented with massive aortic root dilation and sudden cardiovascular collapse 10 years after aortic valve replacement . an aortic to right atrial fistula was diagnosed by echocardiographic imaging and doppler ultrasound . at operation , the patient was found to have chronic aortic dissection with aneurysm formation . rupture of the aneurysm into the right atrium was confirmed . 
resolution of dilated cardiomyopathy after surgical ablation of ventricular tachycardia in a child . sustained tachycardia may be associated with dilated cardiomyopathy that may improve after medical management of the tachycardia . ventricular tachycardia due to an ectopic focus is uncommon in children and rarely presents as congestive heart failure . this report documents that severe dilated cardiomyopathy in a child was caused by sustained ventricular tachycardia and that , after cryoablation of the tachycardia focus , ventricular function rapidly returned to normal . 
the st . jude medical cardiac valve in infants and children : role of anticoagulant therapy . the experience at the university of colorado with the st . jude medical cardiac valve was reviewed to determine the feasibility of placing this prosthesis in children and the role of anticoagulation . a st . jude medical cardiac valve was placed in 33 patients ranging in age from 2.5 months to 17 years . seven patients were less than 1 year of age . nineteen valves were placed in the aortic position in patients aged 5 months to 17 years ( mean 9.5 years ) . five patients had valve replacement only , 13 had concomitant aortoventriculoplasty and 1 a manouguian procedure . indications for anulus enlarging procedures were recurrent subaortic stenosis or inability to place an adult-sized valve in the native aortic anulus , or both . there were no early or late deaths . fourteen valves were placed in the mitral position . they were anular positioned in 6 patients aged 6 months to 16 years and supraanular positioned in 8 patients aged 2.5 months to 2 years . there were no deaths with the anular positioned replacements and seven deaths ( two early and five late ) with the supraanular positioned replacements . four of the five late deaths were associated with marked pre- and postoperative left ventricular dysfunction . the follow-up time was 784 patient-months in 31 long-term survivors . anticoagulation was achieved with warfarin , usually in combination with sulfinpyrazone , dipyridamole or aspirin . there were four episodes of thromboembolism , three occurring in patients with suboptimal anticoagulation , and one in a patient lost to follow-up . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
six year clinical study of use of the omniscience valve prosthesis in 219 patients . a 6 year experience of cardiac valve replacement with the omniscience prosthesis is described . a total of 253 valves were inserted in 219 patients . the survivors were followed up for a total of 536 patient-years and for a mean of 2.8 years . the follow-up was 97.6 % complete . analyses were performed in accordance with recommended criteria regarding definitions of complications and grading thromboembolic events for severity and analysis of anticoagulant status . results are described both in terms of actuarial and linearized rates . for the patients at risk , actuarial survival at the end of 5 years was 87.9 + / - 3.1 % overall , 90.4 + / - 3.0 % for single valve ( aortic 88 + / - 5 % , mitral 93.3 + / - 4 % ) replacement and 71 + / - 11 % for multiple valve replacement . the actuarial rates of freedom from complications were as follows : endocarditis 95.7 + / - 1.8 % ( aortic 94 + / - 3.5 % , mitral 100 % ) , periprosthetic leak 98 + / - 1 % ( aortic 96.2 + / - 2.6 % , mitral 100 % ) , thromboembolism 95.2 + / - 2.3 % ( aortic 90.9 + / - 4.6 % , mitral 96.7 + / - 3.3 % ) , valve thrombosis 98.7 + / - 0.9 % ( aortic 100 % , mitral 100 % ) , anticoagulant-induced bleeding 90.3 + / - 2.6 % and all valve-related complications 79.4 + / - 3.6 % ( aortic 78.8 + / - 3.6 % , mitral 85.9 + / - 4.5 % ) . the functional improvement in patients was very satisfactory and the risk of reoperation was 1.1 % per patient-year . over a 6 year time frame , the omniscience valve has given excellent clinical performance . 
atrial sensing after dual chamber pulse generator implantation [ letter ] 
procainamide pharmacokinetics and diuretic and fluid administration [ letter ] 
100-mile western states endurance run : a physiologic stress laboratory [ letter ] 
left ventricular volume during supine exercise : importance of myocardial scar in patients with coronary heart disease . existing studies suggest that exercise-induced ischemia produces an increase in left ventricular end-diastolic volume ; however , all of these studies have included patients with previous myocardial infarction . to test whether the end-diastolic volume response to exercise is related to the extent of myocardial scar , the results of gated radionuclide supine exercise tests performed on 130 subjects were reviewed . the patient group comprised 130 subjects were reviewed . the patient group comprised 130 men aged 35 to 65 years ( mean + / - sd 52 + / - 5 ) with documented coronary heart disease . the extent of myocardial ischemia and scar formation was assessed by stress electrocardiography and thallium-201 scintigraphy . patients were classified into three groups on the basis of left ventricular end-diastolic volume response at peak exercise : group 1 ( n = 72 ) had an increase of end-diastolic volume greater than 10 % , group 2 ( n = 41 ) had a change in end-diastolic volume less than 10 % and group 3 ( n = 17 ) had a decrease in end-diastolic volume greater than 10 % ( n = 17 ) . at rest there was no significant difference among groups in heart rate , systolic blood pressure , end-diastolic ( edvrest ) or end-systolic volumes or ejection fraction ( p greater than 0.05 ) ; however , at peak exercise the end-systolic volume response was significantly greater for group 1 ( p less than 0.002 ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
myocardial ischemia versus scar in exercise-induced left ventricular dysfunction . 
the origins of the sinus node pacemaker complex in man : demonstration of dominant and subsidiary foci . to test the hypothesis that the human sinus node is capable of demonstrating multiple sites of impulse generation , we assessed spontaneous shifts in the sinus node pacemaker complex , and shifts after overdrive atrial pacing , premature atrial stimulation and carotid sinus massage . a total of 24 patients aged 59 + / - 15 years ( mean + / - sd ) in whom stable sinus node electrograms were obtained were selected for the study . ten of the 24 patients had sick sinus syndrome , whereas 14 had no sinus node dysfunction . all 24 patients had atrial pacing at cycle lengths of 1 , 000 to 300 ms ; 9 patients had premature atrial stimulation and 12 had carotid sinus massage . shifts in the sinus node pacemaker complex occurred spontaneously in 4 ( 17 % ) of the 24 patients ; after atrial pacing at cycle lengths of 800 to 300 ms ( mean 387 + / - 92 ) in 15 ( 63 % ) of 24 patients ; after premature atrial stimulation at one or more coupling intervals in 5 ( 56 % ) of 9 patients and during carotid sinus massage in 9 ( 75 % ) of 12 patients . shifts in the sinus node pacemaker complex lasted one to six beats and returned to the original site within two to seven beats . spontaneous shifts in the sinus node pacemaker complex occurred in 3 of 14 patients without sick sinus syndrome and were induced in 6 ( 60 % ) of 10 patients with sick sinus syndrome and 11 ( 79 % ) of 14 patients without sick sinus syndrome . shifts in sinus node pacemaker complex were characterized by loss of primary negativity , change in p wave morphology , significant ( p less than 0.001 ) prolongation of sinoatrial interval and sinus cycle length . 
atrial septal defect : attenuation of respiratory variation in systolic and diastolic time intervals . the effects of pathologic states on right and left ventricular function have been studied extensively . however , there have been few studies on the interrelations between right and left ventricular function in normal human subjects and in patients with disease . respiratory effects on ventricular interrelations reflected by diastolic time , right or left ventricular systolic time and ventricular performance ( pre-ejection period / ejection time ratio ) were studied in 12 normal subjects and 15 patients with a normal pressure-large shunt atrial septal defect . simultaneous pulmonary artery ( intracardiac manometer recordings ) and left ventricular external recordings were performed in both groups . left ventricular diastolic time increased with inspiration in the normal subjects and decreased in the patients with atrial septal defect ( 12.6 + / - 2.39 [ 1 se ] versus -13.4 + / - 3.48 ms , p less than 0.001 ) . left ventricular systolic time and ejection time decreased with inspiration in the normal group and remained unchanged in the patient group ( -7.6 + / - 0.95 versus -0.9 + / - 0.77 ms , p less than 0.001 and -10.4 + / - 1.09 versus -1.7 + / - 0.80 ms , p less than 0.001 , respectively ) . left ventricular pre-ejection period / ejection time ratio increased with inspiration in the normal subjects and remained unchanged in the patients with atrial septal defect ( 0.03 + / - 0.008 versus 0 + / - 0.01 , p less than 0.01 ) . right ventricular diastolic time decreased with inspiration in normal and patient groups ( -8.8 + / - 1.6 versus -17 + / - 3.87 ms ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
nuclear magnetic resonance imaging in marfan 's syndrome . detection and evaluation of aortic root and other cardiovascular abnormalities in patients with marfan 's syndrome are important in determining appropriate therapy and preventing premature mortality . to evaluate the role of nuclear magnetic resonance imaging ( nmr ) in this syndrome , 10 patients were evaluated using a 0.35 tesla commercial nuclear magnetic resonance imaging system . findings from these studies were compared with data from other noninvasive tests as well as surgical follow-up . results from these examinations indicate that nmr-derived measurements of aortic root diameter agree closely with echocardiographic measurements . in addition , nmr provides more complete anatomic detail than does echocardiography and can be utilized to assess and follow up virtually all patients with this syndrome . 
measurement of left ventricular stroke volume using continuous wave doppler echocardiography of the ascending aorta and m-mode echocardiography of the aortic valve . a number of reports have described different doppler echocardiographic methods to calculate left ventricular stroke volume and cardiac output , but the clinical application of the noninvasive measurements of cardiac function remains in the early stages of development . this slow dissemination may be partly explained by the varying success of these ultrasound methods in determining accurate left ventricular stroke volume . the purpose of this study was to improve the simplicity and accuracy of doppler stroke volume determination so that it could be more easily applied to patient management . stroke volume was measured using the product of the integral of aortic velocity obtained by continuous wave doppler technique and the m-mode tracing of the aortic valve , validating the data against cardiac output obtained by thermodilution technique in 41 patients ( r = 0.95 , see = 7 cc ) . intra- and interobserver variability was between 9 and 11 % . the results of different sampling sites and the temporal relation between doppler and thermodilution measurements were also studied . analysis of 21 patients who had m-mode and two-dimensional echocardiographic studies of the aortic root revealed that the method using m-mode measurement of aortic valve area was most accurate in determining left ventricular stroke volume ( r = 0.94 , see = 10 cc ) , stroke volume being overestimated when area measurements of the ascending aorta were used . in conclusion , maximal ascending aortic velocity determined by continuous wave doppler echocardiography with m-mode measurement of aortic valve area can be used to calculate left ventricular stroke volume and cardiac output . the simplicity and practicality of this method should enhance the clinical application of doppler echocardiography as a noninvasive monitoring technique . 
arm exercise-thallium imaging testing for the detection of coronary artery disease . patients with lower limb impairment are often unable to undergo a standard bicycle or treadmill test for the evaluation of coronary artery disease . to establish an alternative method of testing , 50 subjects ( aged 56 + / - 10 years ) performed arm ergometry testing in conjunction with myocardial thallium scintigraphy . all underwent coronary angiography ; significant coronary artery disease ( greater than or equal to 70 % stenosis ) in at least one vessel was present in 41 ( 82 % ) of the 50 patients . thallium scintigraphy was found to have an 83 % sensitivity and 78 % specificity for detecting coronary disease , compared with a sensitivity and specificity of 54 % ( p less than 0.01 ) and 67 % ( p = ns ) , respectively , for exercise electrocardiography . in the subgroup of 23 patients who had no prior myocardial infarction or left bundle branch block and were not taking digitalis , thallium scintigraphy had a sensitivity of 80 % versus 50 % for exercise electrocardiography . scintigraphy yielded a sensitivity of 84 , 74 and 90 % for one , two and three vessel disease , respectively . noninvasive arm ergometry exercise-thallium imaging testing appears to be reliable and useful and should be considered in the evaluation of coronary artery disease in patients with lower limb impairment . 
electrophysiologic mechanisms of orthodromic tachycardia initiation during ventricular pacing in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome . orthodromic tachycardia is the most common arrhythmia in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome . it is often initiated during incremental ventricular pacing that requires the onset of retrograde block along the normal pathway ( that is , atrioventricular [ av ] node-his-purkinje system ) with concomitant retrograde atrial activation by way of the accessory pathway . however , the site of retrograde block , that is , the av node versus the his-purkinje system , during incremental ventricular pacing and , hence , the mechanism of orthodromic tachycardia initiation have not been systematically elucidated . the mechanisms of orthodromic tachycardia induction were studied in 17 patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome using a specially designed pacing protocol . a beat by beat analysis indicated that the retrograde his-purkinje system block was the most common initiating mechanism of orthodromic tachycardia in 14 of the 17 cases . in two cases , av node block preceded the onset of orthodromic tachycardia , whereas the data in the remaining case suggested that both mechanisms were operative but at different pacing cycle lengths . the orthodromic tachycardia induction with his-purkinje system block occurred within the first two cycles in most cases . when orthodromic tachycardia initiation was delayed beyond the first two cycles of the ventricular train it represented either a 2 : 1 block in the his-purkinje system ; a linking phenomenon in the his-purkinje system ; or a block in the av node . these data have methodologic , mechanistic and therapeutic implications for patients with the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome . 
nutrition controversies in diabetes management . 
exchange lists : revised 1986 [ published erratum appears in j am diet assoc 1987 aug ; 87 ( 8 ) : 1103 ] a committee composed of members of the american dietetic association and the american diabetes association has revised exchange list for meal planning . changes were made , as deemed necessary , on the basis of nutritional recommendations for persons with diabetes as understood in 1986. major changes include rewriting the text to make it more useful in the education of persons with diabetes ; changing the order of the exchange lists to emphasize a high-carbohydrate , high-fiber diet , as well as to better reflect the order of foods in menu planning ; adding symbols to foods high in fiber and sodium ; changing nutritive values for the starch / bread and fruit lists ; adding lists of combination foods , free foods , and foods recommended only for occasional use ; developing a data base ; and initiating a plan for field testing and evaluation . the committee also developed a simplified meal planning tool , healthy food choices , to be used for initial or " survival " level education . in poster format , foods are grouped by calories into six food groups . approximate portion sizes of commonly used foods are listed . blank lines are provided for the nutrition counselor to write in a suggested menu or meal plan for the client . because the booklet does not use the word " diabetes " specifically , it is appropriate as a general teaching tool . 
motivational techniques of dietitians counseling individuals with type ii diabetes . a survey was conducted to ascertain to what extent dietitians use techniques cited in the literature considered to affect adherence by patients with non-insulin dependent ( type ii ) diabetes . a survey instrument listing techniques related to changing behavior , the counseling process , and content of teaching was developed and mailed to 500 members of the ada diabetes care and education practice group . responses were received from 39 % of the sample . for a majority of techniques , data analysis showed statistical association between frequency of use , perceived importance , and adequacy of practitioner training . dietitians regularly used only 40 % of the cited techniques related to changing behavior and the counseling process , but they said most of the items were important . only half of the items related to the content of teaching were rated as important , and dietitians felt prepared to use only 70 % of them . most dietitians did not teach concepts related to glucose utilization , energy metabolism , and the metabolic role of insulin in diabetes . those findings suggest that dietitians do not regularly use many techniques considered effective in obtaining dietary adherence of patients with diabetes . since other studies show compliance is directly influenced by skills of the provider , dietitians could improve cost-effective health care by developing further professional expertise in the area of counseling patients with diabetes . 
validation of a semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire : comparison with a 1-year diet record . the validity of a self-administered semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire was evaluated for a group of 27 men and women aged 20 to 54. intakes of 18 nutrients computed from the questionnaire were compared with those derived from 1-year diet records completed approximately 18 months earlier . the questionnaire estimates of mean nutrient intake were within 10 % of the mean diet record measurements for 11 of the 18 nutrients evaluated , and the difference was less than 25 % for all but one nutrient ( total vitamin a ) . correlation coefficients comparing unadjusted nutrient intakes measured by the two methods ranged from 0.38 ( vitamin c ) to more than 0.65 ( total calories , total fat , saturated fat , polyunsaturated fat , oleic acid , and cholesterol ) . the overall mean of correlation coefficients comparing intakes of the 18 nutrients measured by questionnaire and by diet record was 0.60 . coefficients for macronutrients decreased somewhat after adjustment for age and gender or caloric intake . the data provide further evidence that a simple and relatively inexpensive questionnaire can provide useful information on dietary intake over an extended period . 
osmolalities of selected enteral products and carbohydrate modules used to treat inherited metabolic disorders . osmolalities of selected defined-formula products for use in treatment of inherited disorders of amino acid metabolism were measured at 12 energy concentrations . osmotic behaviors of six carbohydrate modules as components of l-amino acid formulas were also studied . osmolality measurements were made using a wescor vapor pressure depression osmometer ( model 5100 c ) . phenyl-free at concentrations greater than 10 kcal / oz yielded high osmolalities that exceeded the recommended level for infants . lofenalac , low phe / tyr diet powder , and msud diet powder at concentrations up to but no greater than 20 kcal / oz exerted osmolalities acceptable for use with infants . low methionine diet powder produced the lowest osmolality of the products tested . differences among products can be explained by the formulations of the products , with sources of nitrogen and carbohydrate and percents of protein , carbohydrate , and fat considered . carbohydrate type significantly affected formula osmolality ; differences among carbohydrate sources can be attributed to their molecular sizes . formulas that contained glucose exerted the highest osmolalities , while those with corn syrup or sucrose yielded the next highest . protein free diet powder , polycose , and moducal exerted reasonably low osmolalities . 
nutritional effects of peritonitis in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) patients . peritonitis , a major complication of end-stage renal disease patients treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) , enhances peritoneal protein losses by increasing protein and energy requirements while simultaneously decreasing appetite , usually causing a negative nitrogen balance . the influence of peritonitis on the nutritional status of capd patients was evaluated . fourteen end-stage renal disease patients being treated with capd and presenting with peritonitis were randomized to one group with and one without a nutritional supplement . four capd patients without peritonitis served as controls . anthropometric measurements , laboratory determinations , dietary protein intake , and protein catabolic rate were obtained . the control group lost an average of 9.6 gm protein per 24 hours in the peritoneal fluid vs . an average of 15.1 gm protein per 24 hours lost by patients with peritonitis ( p less than .01 ) . serum albumin did not decrease except in two diabetic patients in whom it dropped an average of 42 % and remained low . nitrogen balance remained positive in all patients except one with diabetes who had very low daily protein intake and caloric intake . the catabolism produced by short uncomplicated peritonitis did not create a negative nitrogen balance in patients eating at least 1 gm protein per kilogram ideal body weight ( ibw ) and 25 kcal / kg ibw . 
a structured approach to clinical education in a dietetic curriculum . the successful integration of clinical and didactic elements to achieve a well coordinated clinical education program is a complex , ongoing task in undergraduate dietetics education , involving both educational and managerial considerations . one effort to achieve improvements in these two areas was the development of a structured learning experience recently field tested with undergraduate dietetics students and clinical dietitians during clinical rotations . the structured experience defined roles , responsibilities , and activities for students , clinical dietitians , and course instructors and included scheduled review meetings attended by all participants . it was implemented with nine students during pediatric rotations . at the end of the course , students completed a standardized course evaluation form to assess course content , educational strategies , and effectiveness . they also rated the structured rotation , unstructured rotations , and their " ideal " rotation on 16 instructional factors . clinical dietitians were interviewed by the course coordinator to elicit reactions and commitment to future participation . when it was compared with the traditional , non-structured approach utilized in surgery , gastroenterology , obesity / diabetes , and cardiovascular disease rotations , the structured learning experience received superior evaluations by participating students and dietitians . correlations between ratings of structured , non-structured , and " ideal " approaches indicated directions for further educational and managerial improvements . 
dietary intake and symptoms of anorexia nervosa in female university dancers . this study was designed to measure and evaluate the dietary intake and symptoms of anorexia nervosa in female university dancers ( no . = 21 ) and a control group of female university non-dancers ( no . = 29 ) . three-day food records were analyzed for calories , protein , vitamin a , vitamin c , thiamin , riboflavin , niacin , calcium , phosphorus , and iron . symptoms of anorexia nervosa were determined through the use of an objective questionnaire , the eating attitudes test ( eat ) . the percent of subjects who consumed less than two-thirds of the recommended dietary allowance ( rda ) for energy was significantly higher in the dance group ( 28.6 % vs . 10.3 % , p less than .005 ) . seventy percent of the total study population consumed less than two-thirds of the rda for at least one nutrient , and 24 % consumed less than two-thirds of the rda for three or more nutrients . thirty-three percent of the dancers and 13.8 % of the controls scored in the range symptomatic of anorexia nervosa on the eat , a difference that was statistically significant ( p less than .005 ) . the results indicate that both female university dancers and female university students may be at risk for nutrient deficiency and anorexia nervosa . 
computing " best fit " calorie-controlled diet patterns by microcomputer . 
computer-assisted management : role delineation for entry-level positions in foodservice management . 
position of the american dietetic association : issues in feeding the terminally ill adult . 
calories and energy expenditure in carcinogenesis : conference report . 
risk factors for atherothrombotic brain infarction in persons over 62 years of age in a long-term health care facility . a history of systolic ( greater than or equal to 160 mm hg ) or diastolic ( greater than or equal to 90 mm hg ) hypertension , diabetes mellitus ( fasting venous plasma glucose greater than or equal to 140 mg / dl ) , a history of cigarette smoking , fasting serum total cholesterol greater than or equal to 200 mg / dl and greater than or equal to 250 mg / dl , and obesity ( greater than or equal to 20 % above ideal body weight ) were examined as risk factors for atherothrombotic brain infarction ( abi ) in 144 men , mean age 81 + / - 8 years , and 391 women , mean age 82 + / - 8 years , in a long-term health care facility . abi occurred in 33 of 144 men ( 23 % ) and in 68 of 391 women ( 17 % ) , p not significant . a history of systolic or diastolic hypertension correlated with abi in both men and women ( p less than 0.001 ) . diabetes mellitus correlated with abi in both men and women ( p less than 0.001 ) . a history of cigarette smoking correlated with abi in men ( p less than 0.02 ) but not in women . serum total cholesterol greater than or equal to 200 mg / dl and greater than or equal to 250 mg / dl did not significantly correlate with abi in men or in women . obesity did not significantly correlate with abi in men or in women . systolic or diastolic hypertension , diabetes mellitus , and cigarette smoking are risk factors for abi in elderly men . systolic or diastolic hypertension and diabetes mellitus are risk factors for abi in elderly women . 
the relationship of knee and ankle weakness to falls in nursing home residents : an isokinetic study . the strength of the knees and ankles of a group of nursing home residents with a history of falls was compared to age-matched controls . peak torque ( pt ) and power ( pow ) were recorded at two limb velocities ( 60 degrees / s and 120 degrees / s ) on a cybex ii isokinetic dynamometer for four muscle groups : knee extensors , knee flexors , ankle plantar flexors and ankle dorsiflexors . the pt and pow of fallers were significantly decreased for all four muscle groups in comparison to controls , with the ankles showing the greatest decrements . although pow in fallers was significantly lower at the higher velocity in both joints , the decrease was most prominent in the ankles . dorsiflexion pow production in fallers was the most affected of all the motions ( 7.5 times less than the control value ) . at the higher , more functional limb velocities , ankle weakness particularly involving the dorsiflexors appears to be an important factor underlying poor balance . 
evaluation of a novel medication aid , the calendar blister-pak , and its effect on drug compliance in a geriatric outpatient clinic . a prospective , controlled , crossover study on drug compliance was initiated in 22 elderly patients from a geriatric clinic . half of the patients received their pills from a commercially prepared calendar mealtime blister-pak ; the remaining patients received their medication from standard pill bottles . at the end of three months the two groups were crossed over . pill count and issuance of a new drug supply were done monthly to assess compliance . it was found that the average noncompliance index was significantly decreased ( 9.17 to 2.04 ) with the blister-pak packaging system . the relationship of age , folstein mini-mental status , overcompliance , frequency of dosing interval , and living situation were also explored . 
age at onset and rate of progression of alzheimer 's disease . age at onset , duration , and severity of dementia were evaluated in 165 patients with a clinical diagnosis of alzheimer 's disease . rate of progression of dementia was determined in 77 patients by repeated administration of the blessed dementia scale ( bds ) . the distribution of age at onset among patients was bimodal , with a division at about age 65. duration of dementia at the time of initial examination was shorter , and rate of progression on follow-up examination was more rapid in senile-onset ( age 65 or greater ) than in presenile-onset ( before age 65 ) cases . considerable overlap among values for the two patient groups was observed for both variables , indicating that age at onset is not a strong predictor of rate of progression of dementia in patients with alzheimer 's disease . 
low serum testosterone and myocardial infarction in geriatric male inpatients . a survey of serum testosterone levels and a range of medical and behavioral factors was conducted on 71 males aged 46 to 89 years in an extended care medical facility . histories of myocardial infarction or heavy drinking were separately associated with diminished testosterone levels ( p less than .002 and p less than .006 , respectively ) . no other factor was associated with testosterone level , including age and mobility . a testosterone level of no more than 438 ng / dl best discriminated patients with myocardial infarction ( p less than .005 , sensitivity 86.2 % , and selectivity 50 % ) . increased incidence of myocardial infarction appeared to be influenced by testosterone in a threshold manner , since the incidence did not rise further with lesser testosterone levels once the level was below 438 ng / dl . the incidence of myocardial infarction among patients with testosterone levels below this threshold was unaffected by their exposure to alcohol . among the 21 formerly heavy drinkers , many ( 62 % ) showed testosterone levels less than or equal to 300 ng / dl . formerly heavy drinkers should be routinely considered for serum testosterone determination . 
medication use characteristics in the elderly : the iowa 65+ rural health study . medication use was studied in a rural , elderly population . household interviews were conducted of 3 , 467 individuals aged 65 years or older . a total of 9 , 955 prescription or nonprescription drugs were reported by the respondents . the overall mean number of drugs per respondent was 2.87 , while 12 % of all respondents were not taking any drugs . mean prescription and overall drug use increased significantly with increasing age ( p less than .001 ) , while mean nonprescription drug use was relatively constant across age groups . significantly more women were prescription and nonprescription drug users . directions for scheduled daily dosing accounted for 75 % of all directions . the majority of prescription and nonprescription drugs had been taken on the previous day . general practitioners accounted for more prescription drugs ( 39.7 % ) than any other medical specialty . the most frequently stated purpose was cardiovascular for prescription drugs and musculoskeletal for nonprescription drugs . the three most frequent prescription drug therapeutic categories were cardiovascular ( 54.7 % ) , central nervous system ( cns ) agents ( 11.4 % ) , and analgesics ( 9.4 % ) . for nonprescription drugs , the three most frequent therapeutic categories were analgesics ( 39.6 % ) , vitamins and minerals ( 32.9 % ) , and laxatives ( 14.1 % ) . implications of these findings are discussed . 
use of assessment instruments in clinical settings . in recent years , increased emphasis has been placed in the field of geriatric medicine on the need for multidimensional assessment of elderly patients . there is an increasing tendency to use standardized structured assessment instruments or questionnaires in this process . frequently , the exact question or set of questions to be answered by the instrument has not been carefully analyzed . although comprehensive structured multidimensional instruments allow the collection of large amounts of data in multiple domains ( physical , social , psychologic , economic ) , these instruments may require excess data collection and may not be reliable in clinical settings . clinicians considering using a variety of assessment instruments should carefully consider their goals for data collection and carefully review the validity , reliability , and population sampled for any assessment instruments under consideration . also , the clinical setting in which the instrument is to be used can have a negative impact on either instrument validity or reliability . 
osteoporosis followed by primary hyperparathyroidism . a reason for continued vigilance . 
visual hallucinations in sane people : charles bonnet syndrome . 
alzheimer 's disease : advances and opportunities . 
advanced directives to limit treatment : the need for portability [ editorial ] 
nonoperative management as primary therapy [ letter ] 
the heimlich maneuver : procedure of choice ? [ letter ] 
behavior modification of pica in a geriatric patient [ letter ] 
abstracts from the ags ( american geriatrics society ) and afar ( american federation for aging research ) . 1986 annual meeting , chicago , november 16 to 19. 
a comparative examination of the residential segregation of persons 65 to 74 and persons 75 and above in 18 united states metropolitan areas for 1970 and 1980. indexes of dissimilarity were calculated for 18 standard metropolitan statistical areas in 1970 and 1980. the indexes measured the level of residential segregation of persons 65 and older , 65 to 74 and 75 and older . results indicated a significantly higher level of segregation for persons 75 and older than persons 65 to 74 in both 1970 and 1980. the difference in the level of residential segregation between persons 65 to 74 and 75 and older significantly increased from 1970 to 1980. when measured as a single age group aged 65 and above , there was no significant change in the level of residential segregation from 1970 to 1980. this result indicates that failure to disaggregate the elderly population into two distinct age groups would have resulted in missing changes in the level and trend of residential segregation among the elderly population . 
strain , social support , and distress in old age . this analysis examined the relationship between life-strain ( e.g. , physical health problems , economic deprivation , and adl impairment ) and psychosomatic and emotional distress in old age , while taking into account the effects of age , race , sex , education , social support , and other measures of social resources . the data was drawn from a statewide household survey ( n = 2 , 146 ) of noninstitutionalized older people . using multiple regression analysis with tests for statistical interaction , the findings revealed that women , whites , those living alone , and those with less education had greater sources of strain . individuals with greater sources of strain were also more likely to receive social support , although they tended to have smaller social networks and less social contact . health status and adl were the strongest predictors of distress . social support was positively related whereas social contact was negatively related to distress . social support had a moderating influence on the relationship between adl impairment and psychosomatic symptoms of distress . other measures of social resources , such as living arrangement and support network size , had neither main nor interactive effects on distress . the findings were discussed in light of their implications for future research . 
effect of exercise training on resting blood pressure and heart rate in adult and aged rats . to test the hypothesis that advancing age may have an effect on cardiovascular adaptation ( resting blood pressure and heart rate ) in response to exercise training , we compared adult ( 4.5 months at start of training ) and aged ( 21.5 months at start of training ) male fischer 344 rats exercised on a rodent treadmill 5 days / week for 9 weeks . two additional age-matched control groups were similarly handled and placed on the nonmoving treadmill for the same duration . chronic exercise did not alter blood pressure in the adult group but lowered resting blood pressure in the aged rats during the midportion of the training period . on the other hand , the adult group demonstrated a significant decrease in the resting heart rate from weeks 3 through 7 during training , whereas the aged group showed no change in resting heart rate during the entire study . these findings suggest that there may exist an age-related difference in the effect of exercise training on basal cardiovascular homeostasis , which is cardioinhibitory in the adult and vasodepressant in the aged . 
differences in the appraisal of health between aged and middle-aged adults . this study examines whether the aged and the middle aged differ in their self-appraisal of health . data were obtained through interviews and medical records from a probability sample of 460 individuals aged 45 to 89 years old . the aged evaluated their health more pessimistically than the middle aged , after controlling for physical health , psychological distress , gender , and education . the aged 's perception of health was significantly worse than the middle aged 's for persons having diagnoses in each of the following diagnostic categories : rheumatism and musculoskeletal deformities , nervous system and sense disorders , and digestive problems . a stronger association was found between perceived poor health and depressive symptoms among the aged than the middle aged . the importance of psychological distress on the aged 's health assessment and subsequent illness behaviors is discussed . 
an anthropometric estimation of body composition of older men . this study sought to derive equations for the functions of estimating the body density ( db ) , lean body weight ( lbw ) , and percentage body fat ( pbf ) of older men . hydrostatic weighing was used to determine the criterion measures of 25 older men , 56 to 70 years of age ( m = 62.1 , sd = 4.2 years ) . a stepwise multiple regression analysis of these data developed equations for each variable with multiple correlation coefficients and standard error of estimates of the most practical ( p less than .001 ) being : db = .857 , 0.0047 g / ml ; lbw = .954 , 2.08 kg ; pbf = .842 , 2.36 % , respectively . the accuracy of these results are commensurate with others reported in the literature . 
increased vasopressin secretion : an early manifestation of aging in the rat . vasopressin release and renal water conserving capacity were measured in normal long-evans rats ranging in age from 2 to 17 months . twenty-four hour urine volume rose and urine osmolality fell as the animals aged , with the first differences evident by age 10 months . assessment of vasopressin release from isolated hypothalamic-neurohypophysial units by means of an in vitro perifusion system demonstrated that hormone discharge increased as the animals aged , being evident by age 7 months . the increased vasopressin releasability could not be attributed to the greater vasopressin content present in the posterior pituitary of the older rats . the data suggest that increased vasopressin secretion is an early manifestation of aging in the rat and that the consequent hypervasopressinemia may affect the renal tubule with resultant diminished responsiveness to the hormone . 
correlations of mini-mental state and modified dementia rating scale to measures of transitional health status in dementia . information regarding the relationships of the mini-mental state ( mms ) and a modified dementia rating scale ( mdrs ) to measures of change , that is , " transitional " health status , in dementia would be potentially useful in the evaluation and care of demented patients . in a longitudinal study of demented outpatients , mms and mdrs at entry and at 1- to 2-year follow-up were significantly correlated with five measures of physician- and advocate-rated transitional health status and change in living arrangement during this interval ( p less than .01 ) . mms and mdrs at follow-up also predicted mortality during a subsequent year of follow-up ( p less than .01 ) . estimated change in mms and mdrs was significantly correlated with all transition variables , except for mms and results suggest mms , mdrs , and estimated change in them reflect these aspects of transitional health status in dementia . 
cross-cultural comparability of the philadelphia geriatric center morale scale : an american-japanese comparison . this study involves an american-japanese comparison of the factorial structure of the philadelphia geriatric center ( pgc ) morale scale . a model containing 11 of the original pgc morale scale items was found to fit both the american and japanese data adequately . factorial invariance was analyzed by testing a series of nested hypotheses involving various equivalence constraints . no major differences were found in the 11-item pgc morale scale between the american and japanese data sets . 
meaning and purpose in life and well-being : a life-span perspective . three hundred men and women at five developmental stages from young adulthood to the old-old completed measures of life attitudes and well-being . significant age differences were found on five life attitude dimensions : life purpose ( lp ) , death acceptance ( da ) , goal seeking ( gs ) , future meaning ( fm ) , and existential vacuum ( ev ) . lp and da increased with age ; gs and fm decreased with age ; ev showed a curvilinear relationship with age . significant sex differences were found for life control ( lc ) and will to meaning ( wm ) . women viewed life as more under their control and expressed a stronger will to find meaning as compared with males . fm , lp , and lc were found to predict psychological and physical well-being ; ev , gs , and da predicted psychological and physical discomfort . preliminary findings attest to the importance of various life attitudes in promoting health and wellness . 
longitudinal analyses of psychological well-being in a national sample : stability of mean levels . maturational changes , cohort differences , and time of measurement effects on psychological well-being were examined in data from the national health and nutrition examination survey ( nhanes ) i epidemiologic followup study . a 9-year longitudinal study of 4 , 942 men and women initially aged 25 to 74 was supplemented by cross- and time-sequential analyses using an independent sample of 4 , 986 participants who were first administered the well-being measures at the time of the follow-up . older participants in the study tended to be lower in both positive and negative affect , but longitudinal changes in these two subscales were not found , and total well-being showed no significant age , birth cohort , or time effects in any of the analyses . given the size and representativeness of the sample , this is strong evidence of the stability of mean levels of psychological well-being in adulthood , and points to the importance of enduring personality dispositions and processes of adaptation in determining levels of well-being . 
social desirability in measures of subjective well-being : a systematic evaluation . the present investigation addressed the problem of a social desirability response bias in measures of psychological well-being . data on 150 people , between the ages of 50 and 82 , yielded high correlations between three measures of well-being ( the munsh , the lsi-z , and the pgc ) and the edwards social desirability scale , but only moderate ones between well-being scales and the marlowe-crowne social desirability scale . part correlations between well-being measures and an external criterion of happiness , controlling for social desirability , failed to improve on the zero-order criterion / well-being relationship . controlling for social desirability , therefore , does not enhance the construct validity of well-being scales . these and related results suggest that the high zero-order correlations between measures of well-being and the edwards scale are more readily attributed to content similarity between the edwards scale and measures of well-being than to a social desirability response bias in well-being measures . 
learned helplessness and depression : a test of the reformulated model . the old model of learned helplessness and depression was compared with the reformulated model . fifty elderly depressed / nondepressed women were exposed to a number guessing task and were given nonveridical feedback as to their success or failure on the task . as predicted by the reformulated model , significant interaction effects were found . depressed women attributed failure to lack of ability ; they attributed success to luck . in contrast , nondepressed women attributed failure to bad luck and success to high ability . in the second part of the study , the reformulated model 's hypothesis was tested regarding personal and universal helplessness . although it only approached significance it was consistent with the hypothesis ; depressed women saw themselves as personally helpless when compared with others for failure outcomes ; nondepressed women saw themselves as universally helpless ( i.e. , everyone would fail the task ) . a revised clinical treatment model was proposed suggesting an interactionist strategy in treating depression . 
self-efficacy , social support , and depression in aging : a longitudinal analysis . this study examines the relationship of self-efficacy and social support to adjustment in aging . fifty-two community residents participated in an initial structured interview and a follow-up interview one year later . measures of depression and self-efficacy relating to social support were included in the initial interview , with measures of depression and actual social support included at follow-up . results showed that initial self-efficacy was related to social support one year later . a path analysis showed that self-efficacy functions directly as well as indirectly through its effect on social support in preventing depression . a partial correlational analysis showed that the relationships between initial self-efficacy and depression one year later and between social support and depression at follow-up hold when ongoing depression is controlled . 
aging , alcoholism , and performance on the luria-nebraska neuropsychological battery . the luria-nebraska neuropsychological battery ( lnnb ) was used to test the hypothesis that alcoholism produces premature or accelerated aging . this hypothesis was tested by the interaction between age ( in individuals ranging from 30 to 76 years of age ) and alcoholism ( nonalcoholics vs . alcoholics ) . no evidence was observed in support of the hypothesis . additionally , the differences in lnnb performance found among age groups were different from those found between the alcoholics and nonalcoholics . this suggests that different mechanisms may be associated with age-related psychological deficits as compared with psychological dysfunction associated with alcoholism . 
age and biochemical status predict preference for casein hydrolysate . two studies investigated relationships between chemosensory preference , age , and biochemical status . in the first study , 10 young and 16 elderly participants rated the relative pleasantness of several concentrations of casein hydrolysate , a nutritionally significant stimulus , prepared in an amino acid deficient soup base . blood assays were performed to assess total protein , albumin , and blood urea nitrogen ( bun ) . elderly persons and those whose blood values indicated lower biochemical status preferred higher concentrations than young persons and those with blood values indicative of higher biochemical status . in a second study 20 young and 20 elderly participants performed the same pleasantness task and then rated the stimuli for intensity using the method of magnitude matching . for each person a single index of biochemical status was produced using measures of protein , albumin , and bun . as in the first study , age and biochemical index predicted preferred concentration of casein hydrolysate , but intensity ratings did not . 
dietary restriction benefits learning and motor performance of aged mice . female c3b10rf1 mice maintained on either a control ( approximately 95 kcal / week ) or restricted ( approximately 55 kcal / week ) diet since weaning were tested in a behavioral battery at 11 to 15 or 31 to 35 months of age ( middle-aged vs . aged ) . age-related declines observed among control groups in tests of motor coordination ( rotorod ) and learning ( complex maze ) were prevented by the restriction regime . in addition , diet restriction increased locomotor activity in a runwheel cage among mice of both ages but did not affect exploratory activity in a novel arena . 
age-related reduction in 8th cervical ventral nerve root myelinated fiber diameters and numbers in man . reduction in the number of large myelinated nerve fibers in spinal nerve roots has been described previously . we observed a reduction in myelinated nerve fiber diameters which at least in part explains the apparent marked reduction in the number of large myelinated fibers with age . 
the effects of videogame playing on the response selection processing of elderly adults . within an information processing framework , age-related declines in speeded responding are attributed to one or more stages of processing . it was the purpose of this experiment to demonstrate the potential reversibility of this decline in at least one processing stage , response selection . two groups of elderly participants ( 57 to 83 years ) were pretested on a two-choice reaction time ( rt ) task under two levels of spatial stimulus-response ( s-r ) compatibility , a task demand shown to affect response selection . following the pretest , one group participated in 7 weeks of videogame play , whereas a second group did not . all participants were posttested on the same two-choice rt task . the results of the analysis of covariance revealed that those elderly individuals who played videogames were faster than the control participants under both levels of s-r compatibility . the effect of videogame play , however , was greater for low compatibility . these results are taken as support for a potential to improve response selection through videogame play . 
age differences in the speed of cognitive operations : resolution of inconsistent findings . gaylord and marsh ( 1975 ) and cerella et al . ( 1981 ) found that the speed of cognitive operations in the mental rotation paradigm was significantly slower for groups of older adults with mean ages of 68 and 73 years than for groups of younger adults . jacewicz and hartley ( 1979 ) found no difference between a group of adults with a mean age of 56 and a group of younger adults . the present study included a group of younger adults , a late-middle age group with a mean age of 56 , as well as an older group with a mean age of 74. the results replicated both those reported by jacewicz and hartley ( 1979 ) and those reported by gaylord and marsh ( 1975 ) and cerella et al . ( 1981 ) . they are consistent with a hypothesis of generalized central nervous system slowing , but they show that the slowing does not begin to affect performance until the sixth decade of life . 
age and practice effects in continuous recognition memory . older and younger women identified new and repeated items in extended lists of letter-number combinations ( e.g. , " a42g " ) . repeated items occurred at intervals ranging from 0 to 32 items ( 0 to 160 s ) and for different lists the items were either visual or auditory . the older women 's performances declined at a more rapid rate as the retention interval was increased . when the older women practiced the auditory task , performances improved and gains transferred to the visual task . gains by the younger women were equivalent , so that initial age differences were maintained . signal detection analyses attributed age effects to differences in sensitivity rather than bias . for women of both ages , conservative bias was greater when the intervals were long and when the task was visual . the absence of age-bias effects was contrary to the hypothesis that older adults adopt more conservative decision strategies . the presence of sensitivity differences , even when the task was well practiced , suggests fundamental age differences in recognition memory . 
depression , anxiety , paranoid reactions , hypochondriasis , and cognitive decline of later-life inpatients . the relationships among the psychopathological states of depression , anxiety , hypochondriasis , paranoid reactions , and cognitive decline for later-life psychiatric inpatients were addressed . the relationship of these variables to life satisfaction , health , pain , and behavior was also considered . sixty later-life ( older than 55 years ) psychiatric patients on an acute geropsychiatric unit were administered a battery of psychological scales ; mini mental state , beck depression inventory ( somatic and psychological components ) , state-trait anxiety scale , mmpi paranoia scale ( and harris-lingoes subscales ) , the hypochondriasis scale ( institutional geriatric ) , life satisfaction scale-z , and self-rated pain responses . in addition , these patients were rated on the macc-behavioral adjustment scale and the cumulative illness rating scale . results showed that there is a high degree of interrelationship among the psychopathological variables except cognition . independent stepwise regression showed that life satisfaction was accounted for by hypochondriasis and anxiety ; health , by depression ; pain , by hypochondriasis ; and behavior , by cognition . 
determinants of interstate migration : differences between elderly and nonelderly movers . this paper analyzes the determinants of interstate inmigration and outmigration for persons aged 5 to 54 and for persons aged 55 and over . the paper finds several similarities between the sets of migration determinants , but several potentially important differences emerge as well . perhaps most striking among these are that states with high earnings of workers tend to have high rates of outmigration of elderly adults and that states with high levels of unemployment have high levels of inmigration of elderly people--these relationships are generally the opposite of those found for the nonelderly . this suggests the possibility of continued divergence in the spatial distribution of younger and older populations and offers the potential for the continued reallocation of resources between states ( through the federal government ) to pay for programs earmarked for the older population . 
interhemispheric subdural hematoma . a case of interhemispheric subdural hematoma ( ish ) following closed head injury is reported . our patient had seizures and mental status changes . cranial computed tomography ( ct ) demonstrated areas of increased density along the right side of the falx cerebri and over the right leaf of the tentorium cerebelli . conservative treatment was chosen and the patient recovered . ten other patients with ish were compared with ours . head injury is the leading cause of ish . most patients display confusion , lethargy , or a " falx syndrome , " with a delayed interval of prominent neurological deficits from the time of injury until presentation . although patients with ish can be successfully treated by medical management , surgical intervention may be required . 
paramedic use of advanced life support procedures : experience and attitude survey . to gather information about paramedic use of 11 advanced life-support ( als ) procedures , 74 emergency physicians and 171 paramedics practicing in utah were surveyed . response was 66 % and 65 % , respectively . performance difficulty , frequency of use , and success rate were evaluated . the willingness of physicians to order , and paramedics to perform each procedure were compared . physicians ' and paramedics ' difficulty ratings were significantly different ( p less than .001 ) for only 3 of the 11 procedures . during the study period , paramedics successfully performed 455 procedures ; 229 were performed by 15 ( 13 % ) of the responding paramedics . the reported success rate for all attempted procedures was 82 % ( 455 / 557 ) . the number of attempts and the success rate was significantly higher ( p less than .05 ) for paramedics with secondary medically affiliated employment . paramedics were significantly more willing to perform 7 of the 11 procedures ( p less than .001 ) than physicians were willing to order . we conclude that paramedic and physician difficulty ratings were generally similar , that many types of als procedures are rarely performed , that a small percentage of paramedics perform the largest number of als procedures , that secondary employment increases paramedics ' procedural attempts and improves success rates , and that they are more willing to perform als procedures than physicians are to order them . 
the wenckebach phenomenon . the wenckebach phenomenon , or type i av block , refers to a progressive lengthening of impulse conduction time , followed by a nonconducted impulse , or dropped beat . it can occur in a variety of pathologic settings , especially inferior myocardial infarction . although a temporary pacemaker may be required , full spontaneous recovery is the rule . 
how to prepare a hospital for an earthquake . practical earthquake preparedness guidance for hospitals is provided , including information on the following : areas of the united states subject to earthquakes , estimated casualties in future earthquakes , structural weaknesses in buildings , nonstructural vulnerabilities and retrofit solutions , emergency planning suggestions , experiences of hospitals in past earthquakes . sources for further information are included . 
evaluation of the knee . the knee is frequently injured and affected by a variety of diseases . a precise history of injury or onset of symptoms is essential . the joint is ideally examined as soon after injury as possible . examination should include observation of swelling , palpation of bony prominences , determination of the presence of effusion , recording of range of motion and evaluation of joint stability . although x-ray studies constitute an important part of overall assessment , they only augment and not supplant thorough physical examination . aspiration of joint effusion should be performed for diagnostic purposes , or to relieve pain . arthrocentesis is indicated when effusion of uncertain etiology is present . 
a case of chest pain and dyspnea [ clinical conference ] 
pediatric resuscitation : a new focus for education and certification . 
prehospital care : procedures or transport ? [ editorial ] 
ruptured jejunum following heimlich maneuver . the heimlich maneuver , over time , has proved to be a useful resuscitative procedure in the management of cases with airway occlusion secondary to foreign body . medical treatments , however , can have side effects , and this maneuver is no exception . a previously unreported complication is presented , that of jejunal rupture . the proper application of the maneuver minimizes the number of side effects ; however , since they do occur , it is suggested that all persons subject to this maneuver be subsequently evaluated by a physician as soon after the incident as is practicable . 
unusual catheter tip placement from attempted central venous catheterization . percutaneous catheterization of the subclavian and internal jugular veins is rapid and has overall complication rates from 0 % to 11.2 % . noncentral placement of catheter tips has been reported in 1 % to 16 % of all cases . two previously unreported locations for noncentral placement of catheter tips are described . 
role of the observation unit in the management of thoracic trauma . use of the observation unit in the management of 150 consecutive patients sustaining blunt or penetrating thoracic trauma , and initially presenting with stable vital signs , normal physical examination findings , and normal chest x-ray studies , was reviewed . all patients requiring admission declared themselves within six hours , with the exception of one asymptomatic patient whose repeat x-ray study was slightly delayed . of the 150 patients , 129 ( 86 % ) were spared hospital admission , and no increased morbidity or mortality could be associated with our policy of selective hospital admission . 
hypokalemic periodic paralysis . generalized motor weakness is a common complaint in the emergency department and has a wide differential diagnosis that includes both organic and infectious etiologies . we report the case of a previously healthy young man with symptoms of muscular paralysis and associated hypokalemia . the clinical presentation of hypokalemic periodic paralysis , its differential diagnosis , and pertinent physical findings are discussed . 
giant-cell arteritis . giant-cell or temporal arteritis is a generalized vasculitis that predominantly affects large- and medium-sized arteries in people over 50 years of age . the illness is commonly characterized by the initial symptoms of headache , temporal artery tenderness or pulselessness , musculoskeletal pain , fever , and fatigue . the most dreaded consequence of giant-cell arteritis is visual loss , which is usually irreversible on presentation . giant-cell arteritis may present with unusual clinical manifestations such as lip , scalp , and tongue necrosis , carpal tunnel syndrome , claudication of the limbs , strokes , angina pectoris , myocardial infarction , hematuria , cough , or other cns symptoms . the etiology of the disease is unknown . emergency physicians are usually familiar with the more common clinical symptoms but one must consider the unusual manifestations of the disease , because early recognition and initiation of therapy ( steroids ) decrease morbidity and can prevent blindness . 
foley catheter extraction of blunt esophageal foreign bodies . the case is reported of a successful foley catheter extraction of two superimposed coins from the esophagus of an 8-year-old girl . the presence of the second coin was suspected only on review of the lateral cervical radiograph . in a previous report , failure to initially diagnose the presence of an additional coin resulted in an endoscopic failure to clear the esophagus . the technical aspects of foley extraction are reviewed along with the controversy surrounding the procedure . series totaling 294 cases document a cumulative success rate of 85 % without significant complications . the technique , when performed by airway experts , is concluded to be a viable alternative to endoscopic removal . lateral films , fluoroscopic extraction , and barium studies in select cases are recommended as safeguards against missing nonobvious foreign bodies of the esophagus . 
coronary artery spasm . part 1 : overview . the syndrome of coronary artery spasm is described . this phenomenon may occur in conjunction with , or in the absence of , fixed atherosclerotic coronary artery disease . ecg manifestations during an attack mimic those seen with acute myocardial injury , but normalization of the ecg following the resolution of the pain is usual . intravenous ergonovine is a sensitive and specific test for confirmation of the diagnosis . nitrates and calcium channel blockers are the mainstay of therapy , although other agents are of theoretical benefit . the role of surgery is unclear . 
the bhopal tragedy--what has swedish disaster medicine planning learned from it ? on december 3 , 1984 , a leak of methylisocyanate ( mic ) from a chemical plant in bhopal , india , affected 150 , 000 to 200 , 000 people . more than 10 , 000 people were severely injured and approximately 2 , 500 died . in this article a survey of symptoms , treatment , and rescue work is given . on the basis of this , we discuss ways to help reduce the effects of a major release of an irritant gas . people living in the vicinity of potential health hazards need information on how to behave in case of accidents . rescue workers and medical personnel must be trained to operate under " toxic conditions . " there must be planning for treatment of thousands of patients at the same time , a circumstance that will often require temporary " satellite hospitals " to be opened . as symptoms and injuries are of the same kind , even if the magnitude and the effect may differ , treatment can , in many ways , be standardized . therefore members of the health care team , irrespective of their daily different specialty fields , can work with the most urgent missions . 
a patient with prolonged headache and lethargy [ clinical conference ] 
emergency department disposition and knowledge of other specialties . 
critical leadership . leadership is the process of motivating others to think or act in a specific manner . in critical clinical situations leadership is often lacking . this results from a failure both to understand the leadership role and the elements necessary to carry out this role . the basic elements and models of leadership are described . eleven basic principles needed to understand and teach medical crisis management are developed . 
a solution to the problems of cytolysis assays with additional applications to other immunological and biochemical assays . after cellular immunoassays are compared with classical bioassays , conventional methods and consequent problems of data analysis for cytolysis assays are reviewed and a new solution is proposed . this solution incorporates new methods , called dose-response surface assays and analysis ( drsa ) , which estimate cytolytic activity coefficients on a surface in a three-dimensional space with two dose variables ( killers and targets ) and one response variable ( counts ) . these new methods based on dose-response surfaces are demonstrated to be more informative and reliable than classical methods based on dose-response curves . in a test of the methods ' robustness ( sensitivity of parameter estimates to changes in the dose levels of the assay design ) , cytolytic activity coefficients estimated by drsa varied by less than or equal to 30 % over a reduction of three to four orders of magnitude in the dose levels . this remarkable robustness should be compared with the corresponding figures of as much as 500 % over less than 1 order of magnitude for previously published results of coefficients estimated by conventional methods . drsa is distinguished from replot-of-plots methods such as those used for enzyme inhibition assays in biochemistry , and is recommended as a more efficient method that should replace replot-of-plot methods now antiquated by the advent of microcomputers . drsa can be applied to any experimental system that requires an activity coefficient to be estimated on a dose-response surface in a space of greater than or equal to 3 dimensions ( greater than or equal to 2 dose variables and one response variable ) , regardless of the mathematical model and statistical estimators used to analyze the dose-response interaction . finally , drsa is compared with the methods known as response surface methodology ( rsm ) , and is described as a new class of methods to be added to those that constitute rsm . 
analysis of immune complexes in rheumatoid arthritis for epstein-barr virus antigens reveals cross-reactivity of viral capsid antigen and human igg . we recently defined the immunochemical characteristics of immune complexes ( ic ) isolated from synovial fluid ( sf ) of patients with rheumatoid arthritis with the use of western blot analysis . in the present study , we probe for exogenous antigens in the ic by examining the specificity of antisera raised against the ic . anti-ic antisera demonstrated strong reactivity against the viral capsid antigen ( vca ) of epstein barr virus ( ebv ) , which was not explained by preimmune reactivity , polyclonal b cell activation , or fc-mediated binding in the immunofluorescence or elisa systems used to measure antibody titers . however , comparable anti-vca reactivity was detected in antisera raised against non-rheumatoid sf . this phenomenon was not due to antigen since monoclonal anti-vca antibody probing the ic by western blot detected only igg , nor to idiotype / anti-idiotype interaction since normal igg absorbed out the anti-vca reactivity . a monoclonal anti-vca antibody competitively inhibited the binding of anti-igg to igg , and fc fragment of igg competitively inhibited the monoclonal antibody binding to vca . no relationship between igg anti-vca antibody and igg rheumatoid factor could be demonstrated . these data demonstrate an unexpected cross-reactivity of fc fragment of igg and vca of ebv through the analysis of sf ic . 
gender differences in eicosanoid production from macrophages of arthritis-susceptible mice . collagen-induced arthritis ( cia ) in rodents is an experimental animal model that shares many clinical and pathologic findings with rheumatoid arthritis in man . our previous findings suggested that the amelioration of cia in mice by a fish oil diet was associated with macrophage accumulation and metabolism of eicosapentaenoic acid and a subsequently altered prostaglandin ( pg ) profile . in these experiments , we examined the role of gender and found that macrophages from female arthritis-susceptible b10.riii or b10.g mice synthesized more pg and thromboxane than macrophages isolated from the males . compared with males , female mice had higher circulating anti-type ii collagen antibodies but were less likely to develop cia . females , especially those on a fish oil diet , developed a much less severe disease than the males . this supports our hypothesis that the type and / or amount of eicosanoid produced from the macrophage may alter the course of experimentally induced arthritis . 
analysis of paraprotein transport into the saliva by using anti-idiotype antibodies . to determine the extent of clonal involvement of the secretory immune system and the origin of salivary immunoglobulins ( ig ) in monoclonal gammopathy patients , saliva and serum samples were collected from five affected individuals ( two iga myelomas , one igg myeloma , one igg benign monoclonal gammopathy , and one igm lymphoma ) and were assayed for the presence of monoclonal ig . purified polyclonal or monoclonal anti-idiotype ( id ) antibodies were prepared against each of the isolated serum paraproteins . in all five individuals , the patient saliva samples inhibited the binding of 125i-labeled homologous ig to the corresponding anti-id antibodies , but normal saliva did not . the concentration of id in patients ' saliva varied from 1 to 400 micrograms / ml ; i.e. , 0.004 to 1.0 % of the corresponding serum values . saliva of a lymphoma patient whose igm kappa protein exhibited rheumatoid factor ( rf ) activity also contained rf . the salivary id-bearing molecules were found to have the same ig isotype as the serum paraproteins . the myeloma iga represented a minor component ( 0.4 and 3.9 % ) of the total salivary iga . the salivary iga myeloma proteins were associated at least in part with secretory component , but the salivary igg paraproteins were not . in an iga myeloma patient , a minority ( 17 % ) of the iga+ plasma cells found in the lacrymal gland biopsy specimen were id+ , whereas the great majority ( 98 % ) of bone marrow iga plasma cells were id+ . the results suggest active transport rather than passive transudation of myeloma iga into the patients ' saliva , and the integrity of the secretory immune system was not compromised by the neoplastic process . 
anti-histone antibodies in idiopathic and drug-induced lupus recognize distinct intrahistone regions . we have identified regions within core histones that are antigenic for autoantibodies in systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) and drug-induced lupus . an immunoblotting technique was used to determine the reactivity of lupus antibodies for intact histones and for trypsin-resistant histone fragments that lack the amino- and carboxyl-terminal amino acids that are normally exposed in native nucleosomes . in sle , the predominant anti-histone response was restricted to epitopes in the trypsin-sensitive regions . of 20 sle sera that had strong antibody activity for multiple intact histones , 17 showed minimal activity with any of the corresponding trypsin-resistant fragments . a markedly different pattern of reactivity was present in sera of patients with procainamide ( pr ) -induced lupus in which antibodies to h2a , h2b , and the h2a-h2b complex had strong fragment activity . interestingly , recognition of trypsin-resistant fragments was also noted in a small number of sle sera that contained antibodies to the h2a-h2b complex . in contrast to both sle and pr-induced lupus , antibodies induced by hydralazine ( hy ) reacted primarily with h3 and h4 . furthermore , these antibodies bound equally well to the corresponding trypsin-resistant regions that are thought to be relatively unexposed in native nucleosomes . thus , the specificities of anti-histone antibodies in sle , pr-induced lupus , and hy-induced lupus are markedly different , but in each disease reactivity appears to be restricted to a limited number of histone determinants . the data raise the possibility that autoantigen in the form of native nucleosomes may be recognized in sle and possibly in pr-induced lupus . in contrast , the propensity of hy to induce autoantibodies to determinants usually not recognized in sle or pr-induced lupus may suggest a different immunogenic stimulus in this disease . 
different functional sites on rifn-alpha 2 and their relation to the cellular receptor binding site . functional domains on the recombinant interferon-alpha 2 ( rifn-alpha 2 ) molecule , which are involved in antiviral and nk enhancing activities , have been defined by immunochemical mapping with mab , and their relationship with the ifn cellular receptor binding site has been studied . with 20 different anti-ifn-alpha 2 mab selected by their binding to 125i-labeled ifn and by immunoprecipitation of the 20 kd ifn molecule , we have defined three spatially separated epitopes ( designated as sites a , b , and c ) and two partially overlapping antigenic determinants on the ifn-alpha 2 molecule . functional relation of ifn-alpha 2 a , b , and c epitopes have been determined by assaying the effect of various anti-ifn mab on ifn-mediated biologic activities . mab directed to sites a and b neutralized the antiviral activity of ifn . furthermore , the mab specific for site b displayed a neutralizing potency threefold higher than mab directed to site a . site b was also involved in the enhancing activity of ifn on nk-mediated cell cytotoxicity , whereas site a was not . mab directed to site c partially affected the ifn-boosted nk activity but did not neutralize the ifn antiviral activity . inhibition studies of 125i-ifn binding to human u-937 myelomonocytic cells by anti-ifn mab demonstrated that mab directed to site b blocked different ifn biologic functions by preventing its binding to the cellular receptor , whereas mab directed to sites a and c caused no inhibition and partial inhibition of this binding , respectively . 
immunologic mimicry by a monoclonal antibody of the tricyclic anti-depressants ' binding site on muscarinic acetylcholine receptors . inhibition constants of tricyclic anti-depressants and related drugs determined for a monoclonal anti-nortriptyline antibody were close to those previously calculated with the same compounds for the brain acetylcholine muscarinic receptor . a highly significant correlation was found between these two series of inhibition constants when no correlation existed between the inhibition constants for the antibody and those for other receptors . this suggests that the binding site for tricyclic anti-depressants on the antibody mimics the binding site for these ligands on muscarinic receptors . although nortriptyline reveals a noncompetitive inhibition of n-methyl-scopolamine binding to muscarinic receptors , muscarinic ligands display weak or no binding to the antibody . these findings indicate that the binding site for tricyclic anti-depressants on the receptor is distinct from that for the muscarinic ligands . 
changing processes from bone marrow-derived cultured mast cells to connective tissue-type mast cells in the peritoneal cavity of mast cell-deficient w / wv mice : association of proliferation arrest and differentiation . connective tissue-type mast cells ( ctmc ) and mast cells grown in vitro exhibit many differences in morphology , biochemistry , and function . when cultured mast cells of wbb6f1-+ / + mouse origin were injected into the peritoneal cavity of genetically mast cell-deficient wbb6f1-w / wv mice , however , the cultured mast cells acquired characteristics similar to ctmc . in this study , we analyzed the changing process . when the density of the cultured mast cells was measured by percoll density gradient centrifugation , the proportion of dense mast cells increased after injection into the peritoneal cavity . because the increase in proportion of dense mast cells paralleled the increase in proportion of heparin-containing mast cells , both parameters may be used as an index for differentiation activity of cultured mast cells into ctmc . when proliferation activity of mast cells was estimated by the incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine , the proliferation activity decreased after the i.p. transfer . moreover , when cultured mast cells were recovered 10 wk after the i.p. transfer , the mast cells almost lost proliferation activity in the same culture condition that had been used for establishment of cultured mast cells from the bone marrow of wbb6f1-+ / + mice . these results demonstrate that the proliferation arrest and the acquisition of ctmc-like characters are associated after i.p. transfer of cultured mast cells . 
l-arginine is required for expression of the activated macrophage effector mechanism causing selective metabolic inhibition in target cells . l-arginine is required for expression of the activated macrophage cytotoxic effector mechanism that causes inhibition of mitochondrial respiration , aconitase activity , and dna synthesis in tumor target cells . this effector mechanism is active in the presence of l-arginine even when the cocultivation medium lacks all other amino acids and serum . cytotoxic activated macrophage-induced inhibition of mitochondrial respiration in target cells is proportional to the concentration of l-arginine in the medium . l-arginine must be present during the cocultivation period . pretreatment of cytotoxic activated macrophages with l-arginine or posttreatment of the target cells after cocultivation is not effective . d-arginine does not substitute for l-arginine and at high concentrations is a competitive inhibitor of the l-arginine-dependent effector mechanism . other analogues that could not replace l-arginine include agmatine , argininic acid , arginine hydroxamate , and tosyl-l-arginine methyl ester . l-homoarginine , however , can effectively substitute for l-arginine . ng-monomethyl-l-arginine is a potent competitive inhibitor of this effector mechanism . high concentrations of lipopolysaccharide do not reverse inhibition of the l-arginine-dependent effector mechanism by ng-monomethyl-l-arginine . however , inhibition of the effector mechanism by ng-monomethyl-l-arginine can be overridden by increasing the concentration of l-arginine in the culture medium . we compared ngng-dimethyl-l-arginine and ngn1g-dimethyl-l-arginine with ng-monomethyl-l-arginine as inhibitors of the l-arginine-dependent effector mechanism . the results show that the inhibitory effect of these guanidino methylated derivatives of l-arginine is highly determined by structure . guanidine is a weak competitive inhibitor of the l-arginine-dependent effector mechanism . the requirement for l-arginine does not appear to be for protein synthesis , creatine biosynthesis , polyamine biosynthesis , or adp ribosylation reactions . bacterial lipopolysaccharide is effective as a second signal only when the cocultivation medium contains l-arginine , and this strict l-arginine dependency is not overridden by increasing the concentration of lipopolysaccharide . bovine liver arginase , by competing for l-arginine in the cocultivation medium , inhibits the l-arginine-dependent activated macrophage cytotoxic effector mechanism . 
modulation of the macrophage oxidative burst by histoplasma capsulatum . the production of reactive oxygen species by phagocytic cells is an important host defense against invading microorganisms . because pathogens that achieve intracellular survival escape destruction by reactive oxidants , we investigated the relationship between the intracellular survival of h . capsulatum and the macrophage oxidative burst . h . capsulatum yeast failed to stimulate the release of reactive oxygen metabolites in unprimed murine macrophages despite extensive phagocytosis of the microorganisms . this effect was observed with live as well as heat-killed fungi over a wide range of yeast-to-macrophage ratios . preincubation of murine macrophages with heat-killed h . capsulatum ( but not with latex spheres ) , followed by incubation with unopsonized zymosan , resulted in inhibition of oxidative burst triggering without inhibition of zymosan phagocytosis . ingestion of h . capsulatum yeast opsonized with the cognate mouse antibody resulted in significant oxidant release , suggesting that suppression of the respiratory burst may be circumvented through fc-mediated phagocytosis . 
the glycine-alanine repeating region is the major epitope of the epstein-barr nuclear antigen-1 ( ebna-1 ) . the epstein-barr nuclear antigen-1 ( ebna-1 ) is a protein containing a large glycine-alanine repeat that has been shown to be antigenic . antibodies to ebna-1 can be detected by means of immunoblotting . preincubation of antisera with purified ebna-1 protein inhibits the binding of igg antibodies in this system , indicating that those epitopes detected by immunoblots are also accessible on the native molecule . a number of synthetic peptides the sequences of which were derived from the glycine-alanine repeating region of ebna-1 and from regions adjacent to it also inhibited antibody binding to ebna-1 . these showed , however , a 1000-fold variation in their inhibitory activities . peptides containing only glycine and alanine were the most effective inhibitors . the anti-ebna-1 antibodies did not react with several other peptides representing sequences from unrelated proteins . at saturating concentrations of peptide 85 to 100 % of anti-ebna-1 , antibody binding was inhibited in all sera tested with one exception . similar results are obtained when antibody binding is assayed by an enzyme immunosorbent assay by using partially purified ebna-1 to coat the plates . thus the glycine-alanine region , either through its primary structure or through conformations assumed by this region , forms the major epitope ( s ) of the ebna-1 molecule . 
recombination of two homologous mhc class iii genes of the mouse ( c4 and slp ) that accounts for the loss of testosterone dependence of sex-limited protein expression . in most mouse strains , expression of a gene encoding sex-limited protein ( slp ) , an isotype of the fourth component of complement ( c4 ) , is induced by testosterone , or the gene is not expressed at all ; however , in some wild-derived strains carrying h-2w7 , h-2w16 , or h-2w19 haplotype , slp is expressed constitutively in the same way as c4 . to examine the structural basis for the testosterone-independent expression of slp , 41 overlapping clones together encoding the s region were isolated from c3h.w7 mouse ( h-2w7 ) cosmid library . five c4-related genes each spanning approximately 16 kb were identified among the cluster of cosmid clones and were isolated for structural study . one of the genes ( c4w7 ) hybridized with the c4-specific oligonucleotide probe but not with the slp-specific oligonucleotide probe , whereas the other genes ( slpw7a , slpw7b , slpw7c , and slpw7d ) hybridized only with the slp-specific probe . restriction mapping of these genes and sequencing of the selected regions of 5'-flanking regions of the genes were performed , and the results were compared with the data obtained with the c4 and slp genes of fm ( h-2d ) and replaced-dns ( h-2k ) . these studies showed that three of the c4-related genes of c3h.w7 ( slpw7b , slpw7c , and slpw7d ) are c4-slp recombinant genes comprising a 5'-region derived from c4 gene and a 3'-region derived from slp gene . it is suggested that 5'-flanking region derived from c4 in these c4-slp recombinant genes accounts for testosterone-independent expression of slp in c3h.w7 mouse . 
the role of spermine in the cytotoxic effects of seminal plasma [ letter ] 
epidermal calmodulin levels in psoriasis [ letter ] 
local and systemic desensitization induced by repeated epicutaneous hapten application . frequent skin exposure of guinea pigs to the contact sensitizing agents dinitrochlorobenzene or 4-ethoxymethylene-2-phenyloxazolone induced both systemic hyposensitization and local unresponsiveness within 8 weeks . both phenomena were hapten-specific . decreased systemic reactivity in repeatedly painted guinea pigs is probably not due to receptor blockade or the development of hapten-specific antibodies , but rather to transient sequestration of hapten-specific effector cells within lymph nodes draining the site of hapten exposure . after discontinuation of allergen exposure , effector cells return into the circulation , as indicated by a reversal of systemic hyporesponsiveness within 5 weeks . the persistence of a cellular infiltrate at the site of repeated application and the hapten-specific unresponsiveness at this site suggest that suppressor cells play a role in local unresponsiveness . upon discontinuation of allergen exposure , local unresponsiveness rapidly dissolves ( within one week ) . since the circulation is still depleted of effector cells , residual hyporesponsiveness may persist for longer periods . 
epidermal cell culture using sephadex beads coated with denatured collagen ( cytodex 3 ) . epidermal cell culture using microcarriers of sephadex beads coated with denatured collagen ( cytodex 3 ) was performed . epidermal basal cells ( above 95 % ) obtained from human skin by trypsinization were cultivated statically on the beads in 96-well culture plates . proliferation was rapid and great in synchronous waves during 2-7 days after inoculation . the growth rate depended on the inoculation cell population densities . when cells were inoculated at 7.75 x 10 ( 4 ) / well , the maximum increase was 3.6-fold and at 1.69 x 10 ( 4 ) / well and 0.32 x 10 ( 4 ) / well , 2.5-fold and 2.1-fold , respectively . differentiation was assessed visually on a hemocytometer . the percentage of basal cells of the total cells present in each well was reduced from 98 % ( on inoculation ) to approximately 25 % in a week and thereafter . in 1 month after inoculation , cells with keratohyaline-like granules were observed at 12 % . the attachment of cells to the beads was rather loose . cells were supposed to be attached to denatured collagen on the beads via fibronectin contained in the serum of the medium , because denatured collagen had the property to bind strongly to fibronectin . loose attachment made it possible to harvest intact cells without the use of trypsin . this cell culture system with such new characteristics will be a useful tool for studying epidermal cell biology and biochemistry . 
human neonatal keratinocytes have very high levels of cellular vitamin a-binding proteins . since cellular retinol- and retinoic acid-binding proteins ( crbp and crabp ) mediate the effects of vitamin a on epidermal differentiation , the levels of these binding proteins were measured in the epidermal and dermal layers of newborn , human foreskin as well as in primary cultures of keratinocytes and fibroblasts from these layers . ligand binding assays with saturating concentrations of all trans- [ 3h ] retinol or of all trans- [ 11-3h ] retinoic acid were used to quantitate amounts of binding proteins in cytosols prepared from these skin layers or cultured cells . the epidermal levels of crabp and crbp ( 60.9 + / - 14.4 and 7.3 + / - 1.7 pmol per mg cytosol protein , respectively ) were markedly higher than that reported for adult epidermis but were comparable to levels in keratinocytes cultured from neonatal foreskin epidermis ( 61.8 + / - 7.8 and 10.7 + / - 2.5 , respectively ) . the levels of crabp were much lower in the foreskin dermis than in the epidermis and the levels measured in the fibroblasts cultured from this dermis were consistent with the dermal levels . however , crbp levels in cultured dermal fibroblasts were very low and could not account for the dermal crbp levels , suggesting that another dermal cell type has high levels of crbp . 
label-retaining cells in human embryonic and fetal epidermis . human embryonic and fetal epidermis was examined and labeling indices ( lis ) for basal , intermediate , and periderm cells were determined . the li for fetal basal cells was 8-11 % and the li for fetal intermediate cells was 7.5-9 % . the total fetal epidermal li was 16-20 % , which equaled the basal li for embryonic epidermis . after 21 days in organ culture , only basal cells in the fetal epidermis labeled with tritiated thymidine , while both basal and intermediate cells in the embryonic epidermis labeled and the total li for fetal and embryonic epidermal cells was the same as the adult epidermal li ( 7 % ) . the li for periderm decreased with increasing estimated gestational age ( ega ) from 9.5 % at 49 days ega to 0.4 % at 85 days ega . a subpopulation of epithelial cells that retained tritiated thymidine label and that have some of the attributes associated with stem cells has been previously demonstrated in rodents . in order to examine human embryonic and fetal epidermis for the presence of such cells , epidermis from various gestational ages were labeled and grown in organ culture for 21 days . the mean percent label-retaining cells ( lrcs ) for embryonic and fetal epidermis was determined . approximately 4 % of the embryonic and 2 % of the fetal epidermal cells retained label for 21 days in organ culture . embryonic lrcs were found in the basal and suprabasal layers , but fetal lrcs were found only in the basal layer . the presence of lrcs in human embryonic and fetal epidermis suggests that epithelial cell proliferation in these tissues may be regulated via a stem cell pattern of proliferation . 
the cystine-rich envelope protein from human epidermal stratum corneum cells . a cystine-rich protein has been extracted from the membrane region of stratum corneum cells with 50 mm tris-hcl buffer , ph 7.3 . the protein has been purified by molecular sieve chromatography , sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis , and preparative isoelectric focusing . an antibody , raised to the purified protein , was located in the cell membrane region in the stratum spinosum , stratum granulosum , and the inner part of the stratum corneum . in addition , the antibody also reacted with the protein extracted from the outer part of the stratum corneum by the immunoblotting method . amino acid analysis of the protein revealed a distribution of 4.3 % cystine residues , 9 % lysine , 18.5 % glycine , and 12.6 % glutamic acid residues . the isoelectric point was found to be 4.8 and the molecular weight of the protein was 16 , 000. 
cyclosporin a does not inhibit epidermal cell growth at therapeutic levels . the direct effect of cyclosporin a on epidermal cells was examined by using a pig skin explant culture system . a dose-response study using cyclosporin concentration from one-tenth the expected serum level to 100 times the expected serum level was done , and epidermal outgrowth and the number of mitotic figures were measured . cyclosporin inhibited epidermal cell outgrowth at concentrations of 60 and 100 times the expected serum level , but it did not inhibit epidermal cell outgrowth at the serum level or even at 30 times the serum level . cyclosporin did not inhibit mitotic figures significantly . these results suggest that cyclosporin does not inhibit epidermal cells directly . 
effect of basement membrane entactin on epidermal cell attachment and growth . a preparation of laminin and entactin ( matrix ) , extracted from the basement membrane of the murine cell line m1536-b3 was used to evaluate the effect of entactin on epidermal cell attachment and growth in culture . cell growth on matrix was significantly higher than on laminin or plastic , in the presence or absence of serum . in attachment assays , the attachment of cells to laminin ( 137 % of control ) or to matrix ( 158 % of control ) was significantly higher when compared with plastic ( p less than 0.01 ) , and the attachment to matrix was higher than to laminin ( p less than 0.05 ) . varying the amount of laminin or matrix used as a substratum showed each enhanced cell attachment to the same maximum value ( approximately 50 % attached cells or 160 % of control ) , but maximal attachment was achieved with lower amounts of matrix ( 15 micrograms matrix vs 15-30 micrograms laminin , p less than 0.05 ) . inhibition studies with anti-entactin and anti-laminin antibodies were used to assay the specific contribution of entactin to cell attachment to matrix . pretreatment of the substratum with increasing amounts of anti-entactin antibody decreased cell attachment to matrix in a concentration-dependent manner , with cell attachment to matrix eventually falling to the same level as that obtained with laminin . there was no effect with anti-entactin on cell attachment to laminin or to plastic controls , and nonspecific rabbit igg had no effect on any group . similar experiments were performed using 2 different concentrations of anti-laminin antibody . at a low concentration , anti-laminin antibody decreased attachment to laminin ( to a level equivalent to the plastic control ) . at a higher concentration anti-laminin decreased attachment to matrix , but to a level that was still greater than the plastic control . the anti-laminin antibody had no effect on attachment to the plastic control and nonspecific rat igg in equivalent amounts had no effect on attachment to any of the substrata . these results indicate that matrix , containing laminin and entactin , enhanced cell attachment above the level seen with laminin alone , and that this effect was probably due to the presence of entactin in the matrix . 
comparison of the inhibitory effects of hydroxyurea , 5-fluorodeoxyuridine , 3 , 4-dihydroxybenzylamine , and methotrexate on human squamous cell carcinoma . a cell line ( scc-25 ) derived from a human squamous cell carcinoma was found to have a higher level of in situ thymidylate synthase activity when compared to a faster-growing cell line , l1210 leukemia , and approximately 5 times the level of activity of a cell line with the same growth rate , s91-a melanoma . these results led to an examination of the effects of both direct and indirect inhibitors of this enzyme using intact scc-25 cells . it was found that drugs that have an indirect effect on this enzyme--methotrexate ( mtx ) , hydroxyurea ( hu ) , and 3 , 4-dihydroxybenzylamine ( 3 , 4-dhba ) --acted as noncompetitive inhibitors and the inhibition of thymidylate synthase by these drugs did not result in the accumulation of its substrate , dump . this suggested that these drugs are also inhibiting steps leading to the formation of dump by a mechanism that is coordinated with the inhibition of thymidylate synthase . 5-fluorodeoxyuridine ( fudr ) , a competitive inhibitor of thymidylate synthase , did cause an increase in the dump pool size indicating that this drug did not affect the synthesis of this substrate . there was a good correlation for the inhibition of growth , dna synthesis , and thymidylate synthase with hu , 3 , 4-dhba , and fudr . however , the results suggested fundamentally different mechanistic reasons for the close relationship among these three inhibitory effects . finally the inhibition of growth by mtx did not appear to correlate with the inhibition of dna synthesis . the implication of these results for the therapy of epidermally derived proliferative disorders , especially with combinations such as mtx and 5-fu , is discussed . 
human hair follicle benzo [ a ] pyrene and benzo [ a ] pyrene 7 , 8-diol metabolism : effect of exposure to a coal tar-containing shampoo . assay systems for the evaluation of carcinogen interaction with human tissues are essential for assessing cancer risk . hair follicles are a readily available source of human epithelial tissue and offer an excellent system with which to study carcinogen metabolism in human populations . in this study freshly plucked human hair follicles were employed to measure the metabolism of benzo [ a ] pyrene ( bp ) , benzo [ a ] pyrene-7 , 8-diol ( bp 7 , 8-diol ) , and the enzyme-mediated binding of [ 3h ] -bp to dna . the effect of human exposure to a crude coal tar ( cct ) -containing shampoo , a preparation rich in polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons ( pahs ) , on these parameters was also evaluated . twelve healthy volunteers were studied before and after shampooing their hair daily for 4 days with the cct-containing shampoo . wide interindividual variation was observed in basal cytochrome p-450-dependent aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase ( ahh ) activity which ranged from 0.6-17.6 fmol water-soluble bp metabolites / h / hair follicle ( mean + / - se of 32 individuals was 9.7 + / - 0.9 ) . after use of the shampoo for 4 days ahh activity increased in 10 of the 12 volunteers ( 50-148 % ) and enhancement of enzyme-mediated binding of bp to dna was detected in most subjects . hair follicles were shown to convert bp to several metabolic species including bp 7 , 8-diol , a major precursor of the ultimate carcinogenic metabolite of bp . benzo [ a ] pyrene-7 , 8-diol itself was also metabolized by the human hair follicles in this system . clotrimazole , a known inhibitor of the metabolism of bp as well as the carcinogenicity of the hydrocarbon in rodent skin , was found to inhibit ahh and the in vitro metabolism of bp and bp 7 , 8-diol in human hair follicles . oral administration of a similar antifungal imidazole , ketoconazole at a dose of 200 mg daily for 5 days , to healthy volunteers also resulted in greater than 90 % inhibition of hair follicle ahh activity . these studies indicate that hair follicles represent an accessible tissue suitable for assessing the extent of pah carcinogen metabolism in human subjects . furthermore , enzyme activity critical to cancer induction by pahs was shown to be inducible following the use of a cct-containing shampoo . this carcinogen-activating enzyme system was substantially inhibited by imidazole compounds , suggesting that they may prove effective as anticarcinogens in human populations . 
depigmentation of black guinea pig skin by topical application of cysteaminylphenol , cysteinylphenol , and related compounds . phenol and catechol were combined with sulfur to develop new melanocytotoxic agents . among these synthetic compounds , 4-s-cysteaminylphenol ( 4-s-cap ) and 4-s-cysteinylphenol ( 4-s-cp ) , which showed an in vivo antimelanoma effect , were evaluated for cytotoxicity to normal epidermal melanocytes using hydroquinone ( hq ) as the control . topical application of 4-s-cap on the skin of black guinea pigs revealed a marked depigmentation of black skin . 4-s-cysteinylphenol also showed some depigmenting potency . 2-s-cysteinylhydroquinone , which was made by combining cystine with hq , on the other hand , did not show any depigmenting effect . depigmentation of black skin by 4-s-cap appeared to derive from : a decrease in the number of functioning melanocytes ; a decrease in the number of melanosomes synthesized within the melanocytes and transferred to keratinocytes ; and destruction of the membranous organelles of the melanocytes . none of these degenerative changes was observed in the keratinocytes , indicating the selective effect of 4-s-cap on melanocytes . 
epidermal changes in human skin following irradiation with either uvb or uva . we have demonstrated previously that following uvb irradiation to normal volunteers there is an increase in epidermal and stratum corneum thickness and an increase in the thymidine autoradiographic labeling index . these changes are coupled with alterations in epidermal glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and succinic dehydrogenase activities , despite the absence of erythema clinically . the use of a sunscreen did not completely prevent these changes . in this study , we have examined the effects of repeated irradiation of human skin with either uvb or uva alone in order to compare the changes produced in the epidermis and to ascertain whether uva irradiation could cause these . irradiation with either uvb or uva alone was found to increase the mean epidermal thickness , the mean stratum corneum thickness , and mean keratinocyte height significantly . glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity was significantly increased throughout the epidermis , and succinic dehydrogenase activity was significantly decreased . the autoradiographic labeling index was significantly increased following uvb irradiation but not following uva irradiation . these results demonstrate that uva alone can have a direct effect on epidermal morphology and metabolism , suggesting that protection of skin from uv radiation should include adequate protection from uva . 
controlled removal of human stratum corneum by pulsed laser . a new method is presented for controlled removal of the stratum corneum of human skin . an excimer laser ( 193 nm wavelength , 14 ns pulsewidth ) was used to remove stratum corneum from in vitro human skin samples by an ablative process . the tritiated water ( 3h2o ) permeability constant and electrical resistance of skin samples were measured in a diffusion chamber apparatus to quantify the enhancement of skin permeability . each laser pulse ablates about a micrometer of stratum corneum , which allows controlled removal of tissue . the maximum specific enhancement of the 3h2o permeability constant obtained after complete stratum corneum removal depends on the laser pulse energy used . the most gentle laser ablation , achieved with a radiant exposure of 70 mj / cm2 per pulse , produced a 124-fold enhancement , which is comparable to that achieved after stratum corneum removal by tape-stripping or removal of epidermis by mild heat treatment . rapid tissue ablation occurred at higher radiant exposures of 170-480 mj / cm2 per pulse , but only a 45-fold enhancement of permeability was achieved . the precision with which stratum corneum can be ablated using excimer laser pulses may allow further basic research on the internal structure of stratum corneum and on the re-epithelization in controlled wounds . the technique may prove useful clinically to enhance percutaneous transport in applications such as topical delivery of drugs , patch testing , and percutaneous blood gas monitoring . 
expression of anionic sites at the dermoepibolic junction . the emergence of anionic sites during basement membrane zone formation was studied using migrating epidermis in organ culture as a model system . ultrastructural investigations using a strongly cationized probe revealed that the heparitinase-sensitive , anionic sites were formed synchronously with the newly built basal lamina after 7 days in culture . 
experimental bacterial endocarditis after dental extractions in rats with periodontitis . the development of bacterial endocarditis was analyzed after dental extractions in rats with or without periodontal disease . periodontal disease was produced in rats by tying silk ligatures around the two maxillary first molars and placing the animals on a high sucrose diet for 14 weeks . sterile aortic valve vegetations were produced by means of a transaortic catheter , and 24 hr later the maxillary first molars were extracted . the animals were killed 72 hr after the extractions . in rats with periodontal disease , extractions resulted in a 48 % ( 14 of 29 ) incidence of bacterial endocarditis , most cases of which were due to streptococcus spp . ( one was caused by staphylococcus aureus ) . in contrast , when the teeth with a healthy periodontium were extracted , only 6 % ( one of 15 ) of the rats developed endocarditis . when catheters were placed in animals with periodontal disease but no extractions were performed , no endocarditis occurred . 
septicemic plague in new mexico . eighteen of the 71 cases of plague reported in new mexico from 1980 to 1984 were septicemic . we reviewed these cases to better describe the clinical presentation of this disorder and to identify risk factors for developing septicemic plague . the symptoms ( fever , chills , malaise , headache , and gastrointestinal symptoms ) and signs ( tachycardia , tachypnea , and hypotension ) of septicemic plague are similar to those of other forms of gram-negative septicemia . abdominal pain was reported in nearly half of the cases , and differential white blood cell counts revealed a marked shift to the left . the risk of developing septicemic plague was higher for persons greater than 40 years of age . because of empirical antibiotic treatment of older persons , deaths from septicemic plague occurred primarily among persons less than 30 years old . deaths from septicemic plague could be reduced by aggressive antibiotic therapy for patients with a clinical presentation suggesting gram-negative septicemia , especially patients less than 30 years old . 
effect of combined clofazimine and ansamycin therapy on mycobacterium avium-mycobacterium intracellulare bacteremia in patients with aids . 
acanthamoeba meningoencephalitis in a patient with aids . 
human immune response to giardia lamblia infection . 
human enteric coronaviruses : further characterization and immunoblotting of viral proteins . 
the plaque-neutralization test as a measure of prior exposure to measles virus . 
cryptosporidiosis in patients with aids [ letter ] 
pericarditis caused by actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans [ letter ] 
reinfection with a different vi-phage type of salmonella typhi in an endemic area [ letter ] 
persistence of specific igm antibodies after natural mumps infection [ letter ] 
nucleic acid sequences of cytomegalovirus in cells cultured from human arterial tissue [ letter ] 
sequences of hepatitis b virus dna in the serum and liver of patients with acute benign and fulminant hepatitis . we investigated hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) dna in liver samples from 22 patients with acute benign hepatitis ( ah ) and 26 with acute fulminant hepatitis ( fh ) and compared the results with those obtained by detection of serum hbv dna and hbv serological markers . free hbv dna forms were detected in 11 patients with ah and one with fh , a reflection of active hbv dna replication in three patients and the end of viral multiplication in nine . free monomeric hbv dna was present in three patients with ah and six with fh , and free oligomers were identified in three patients with ah . results from two patients with ah and seven with fh suggested the presence of dimeric or multimeric hbv dna . thus , the various forms of hbv dna previously described in chronic hbv carriers may be observed at the acute stage of the viral infection . after comparing serological and hybridization data , we found that nine of 19 patients ( one with ah and eight with fh ) lacking serum hbv surface antigen might have had acute hepatitis related to infection with hbv or hbv variants . 
titration of the infectivity of hepatitis d virus in chimpanzees . the infectivity of hepatitis d virus ( hdv ) was evaluated by intravenous inoculation of chimpanzees . hdv was present in the inoculum at a titer of 10 ( 11 ) chimpanzee infectious doses ( cid ) . in contrast , the titer of hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) in the same inoculum was 10 ( 6 ) cid . all hbv-infected chimpanzees inoculated with less than or equal to 10 ( -11 ) dilutions of the hdv-positive plasma were superinfected ; an animal receiving a 10 ( -12 ) dilution did not develop markers of hdv replication in serum or liver . all hdv-infected chimpanzees had marked elevations of serum alanine aminotransferase activities . the incubation period from exposure to development of hepatitis was inversely related to the dose of hdv inoculum , although the severity and duration of hepatitis were independent of it . all animals recovered and rapidly developed antibody to hepatitis d antigen . 
renal excretion of divalent ions in response to chronic acidosis : evidence that systemic ph is not the controlling variable . although metabolic acidosis produces calciuric , phosphaturic , and magnesiuric effects , the consequences of chronic respiratory acidosis are unclear . to examine the role of systemic ph on renal divalent metabolism , 4-day balance studies were performed in rats with both metabolic acidosis induced by adding 1.5 % nh4cl to the drinking water , and respiratory acidosis produced by exposure to 10 % atmospheric co2 in an environmental chamber , and in controls pair-fed with each group . by the fourth day , blood ph had decreased to an identical degree with both chronic metabolic and respiratory acidosis and averaged 7.28 . as anticipated , chronic metabolic acidosis resulted in significant calciuria , magnesiuria , and phosphaturia . however , despite the similar decrement in blood ph , calcium , phosphorus , and magnesium excretion was similar to that in the pair-fed controls with chronic respiratory acidosis . these findings indicate that a low systemic ph , per se , does not account for the modifications in urinary divalent ion handling that accompany chronic metabolic acidosis . however , additional observations suggest that differences in the intracellular ph of the proximal tubular epithelium may be an important regulatory variable . 
effects of aldosterone on rat collecting tubule n-ethylmaleimide-sensitive adenosine triphosphatase . acidification in the collecting tubule is thought to be mediated by a proton-translocating adenosine triphosphatase ( atpase ) , and is modulated by aldosterone . using an enzymatic microassay , we measured n-ethylmaleimide ( nem ) -sensitive atpase activity in isolated tubules obtained from control rats and rats receiving aldosterone by osmotic minipumps ( 5 micrograms / 100 gm / day for 7 days ) . in control animals , enzyme activity was higher in cortical than in outer medullary collecting tubules ( 259 + / - 36 vs . 111 + / - 16 pmol / mm / hr , p less than 0.005 , respectively ) . prolonged aldosterone administration resulted in an increase in enzyme activity in the outer medullary collecting tubule ( 274 + / - 39 pmol / mm / hr , p less than 0.005 ) , with no change in the cortical collecting tubule ( 255 + / - 47 pmol / mm / hr ) . these findings suggest that prolonged enhancement of acidification by mineralocorticoids is mediated by different mechanisms in the two segments of the rat collecting tubule . whereas in the outer medullary segment an increase in the activity of nem-sensitive atpase facilitates the chronic enhancement in acidification , high basal enzyme activity in the cortical segment and institution of favorable voltage condition by mineralocorticoid treatment may obviate the need to increase enzyme activity . 
development and reversibility of aluminum-induced bone lesion in the rat . we studied the effect of aluminum injections on bones of rats after intervals of 3 , 6 , and 9 weeks . to study reversibility , we allowed one group to recover for 3 weeks . both weanling and adult rats were examined to determine the influence of age . the calcium , phosphate , creatinine , and parathyroid hormone levels were similar in aluminum-treated rats and controls . aluminum could be seen by histochemical stain after 6 weeks , but at that time the bone was otherwise normal . by 9 weeks the bone formation ( as measured by tetracycline labeling ) in aluminum-treated rats was severely decreased on trabecular and endosteal surfaces . the periosteal surfaces showed normal formation . after 3 weeks of recovery , the bone formation rate in the young aluminum-treated rats was similar to that in the controls , although the serum and bone aluminum values had not significantly decreased . a higher percentage of aluminum was seen in the cement lines . in the adult rats , the bones had more stainable aluminum , and increased osteoid was noted along trabecular and periosteal surfaces . the doses of aluminum used in these rats greatly exceeded those that cause toxicity in humans ; thus these findings may not directly apply to clinical practice . we conclude that aluminum administration can lead to decreased rates of bone formation in the rat , despite normal calcium level and renal function , and without decreased parathyroid hormone levels . the peritoneal route of administration could also have contributed to bone lesions by causing peritonitis , malabsorption , or both . adult rats showed signs of early osteomalacia . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
effect of parathyroid hormone activity on gentamicin nephrotoxicity . dietary calcium ( ca++ ) supplementation attenuates gentamicin nephrotoxicity in rats . it has been proposed that this protective effect results from the ability of ca++ to interfere with gentamicin binding to renal cell membranes . however , calcium supplementation also suppresses parathyroid hormone ( pth ) activity , which may affect gentamicin nephrotoxicity by altering renal brush border phospholipid composition or renal calcium handling . we therefore compared gentamicin nephrotoxicity in pth-stimulated control rats and parathyroidectomized ( ptx ) rats . although their pretreatment serum ionized calcium concentration was significantly higher ( 1.27 + / - 0.01 vs . 0.88 + / - 0.06 mmol / l ; p less than 0.001 ) , pth-stimulated rats had higher peak renal cortical gentamicin concentrations ( 543 + / - 20 vs . 395 + / - 49 micrograms / gm ; p less than 0.025 ) and serum creatinine concentrations ( 3.0 + / - 0.8 vs . 0.9 + / - 0.3 mg / dl ; p less than 0.05 ) . structural injury and depression of renal cortical slice uptake of p-aminohippurate were also less severe in ptx rats . gentamicin treatment also caused increased urinary ca++ excretion in control rats ( from 2.12 + / - 0.64 mumol / mg creatinine per day [ pretreatment ] to 16.86 + / - 2.07 mumol / mg creatinine per day ; p less than 0.001 ) but not in ptx rats . control rats ingesting chow containing a standard ca++ content ( 1.2 % ) resembled ptx rats . these results indicate that pth stimulation exacerbates gentamicin nephrotoxicity . increased peak renal cortical gentamicin concentrations in pth-stimulated rats may be caused by increased gentamicin transport across the brush border as a consequence of pth-mediated alteration of plasma membrane phospholipid composition , turnover , or both . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
serial determinations of the amino-terminal peptide of type iii procollagen in severe chronic active hepatitis . to evaluate the diagnostic significance of the amino-terminal propeptide of procollagen type iii ( p-iii-p ) in monitoring chronic liver disease , serum p-iii-p concentrations were measured in 46 patients with severe chronic active hepatitis ( cah ) at entry and at remission during a therapeutic clinical trial . coded sera were analyzed for p-iii-p concentrations by both a standard radioimmunoassay and a recently developed and potentially more precise radioimmunoassay that uses fab fragments rather than intact antibodies for binding antigen . as compared with conditions in 22 normal controls , p-iii-p concentrations were elevated in 98 % and 72 % of patients with cah by use of the standard and fab radioimmunoassays , respectively . with treatment , p-iii-p levels fell at remission to levels that were not significantly different from control values , as measured by both assays . the fab radioimmunoassay , either alone or combined with the standard radioimmunoassay , provided no advantage over the standard radioimmunoassay alone . serum p-iii-p levels , as measured by either assay , correlated poorly or not at all with standard liver function tests and with histologic grade of disease . these data suggest that p-iii-p serum levels are abnormal in severe cah but normalize when remission of disease has been achieved . consequently , serum p-iii-p levels may be a diagnostic aid in the sequential evaluation of patients with severe cah requiring treatment , and this test deserves further investigation . in this regard , the standard p-iii-p assay has greater diagnostic accuracy than the fab assay . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
hemodynamic effects of sodium in uremia [ editorial ] 
use of the triolein breath test in alcoholics with liver damage . the triolein breath test ( tbt ) is a simple , noninvasive technique for the evaluation of steatorrhea . however , because it depends on intermediary hepatic processes , and because both liver damage and pancreatic dysfunction often co-exist in the alcoholic , the overall usefulness of the test in patients with liver injury was reassessed . we found that even in the absence of steatorrhea , a majority of patients with advanced liver injury ( alcoholic hepatitis , cirrhosis , or both ) had abnormal tbt results that failed to correct with pancreatic extract . in contrast , patients with less severe lesions ( steatosis ) had results that were not significantly different from those in normal controls . inasmuch as the abnormal tbt results in patients with advanced alcohol-induced lesions did not correct with pancreatic extract , the test may not accurately differentiate pancreatic from nonpancreatic steatorrhea in some alcoholics . 
actin synthesis in cultured cardiac myocytes : comparative effects of doxorubicin , dactinomycin , and plicamycin . cultured neonatal rat myocardial cells ( cmc ) were incubated with 10 ( -8 ) to 10 ( -5 ) mol / l doxorubicin ( adr ) , dactinomycin ( act ) , and plicamycin ( mit ) , respectively , in medium containing 35 mu ci sulfur 35-labeled methionine to determine comparative effects on myocardial contractile protein synthesis . cells were harvested in 2 mmol / l tris buffer with 0.1 % triton x-100 , homogenized , and fractionated by centrifugation . aliquots of the extracts containing equivalent amounts of protein were applied to 8 % to 15 % gradient sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis ( sds-page ) . similar aliquots were subjected to isoelectric focusing and to gel electrophoresis in the second dimension . all electrophoretic gels were autoradiographed . a concentration-dependent effect of adr , act , and mit on protein and on actin synthesis was found in cultured myocytes with decreased density of radiolabeled actin band in cmc exposed to either 10 ( -5 ) mol / l adr , or from 10 ( -8 ) to 10 ( -5 ) mol / l act , or from 10 ( -7 ) to 10 ( -5 ) mol / l mit . autoradiographs of two-dimensional gels focused actin isoforms but showed substantial decreases of all actin isoforms in cmc extracts from 10 ( -7 ) mol / l act . act and mit each decreased cmc protein synthesis by 20 % at 10 ( -8 ) mol / l . at 10 ( -6 ) mol / l adr , synthesis of alpha-actin was diminished preferentially compared with beta and gamma . synthesis of all actin isoforms was diminished at 10 ( -5 ) mol / l adr . the effect of mit and act on cmc actin and protein synthesis in heart cells is not as specific as the effect of adr on cmc actin and protein synthesis . 
effect of hyponatremia on response to volume depletion in uremic dogs . it has been suggested that sodium depletion can alter cardiovascular reflexes and vascular sensitivity to pressors . to define the effects of hyponatremia on the hemodynamic response to volume depletion in the setting of uremia , isolated ultrafiltration was performed in acutely uremic dogs previously rendered hyponatremic ( 127 + 2.5 [ sd ] meq / l ) for 72 hours by dialyzing against a low-sodium dialysate . response was compared with that of the same animals in the normonatremic ( 150 + / - 3.6 meq / l ) condition . animals in the hyponatremic and normonatremic states had similar initial values of blood volume ( hyponatremic 2284 + / - 338 ml , normonatremic 2306 + / - 372 ml , p not significant ) , mean arterial pressure , cardiac output , and total peripheral resistance , but preultrafiltration body weight in the hyponatremic state was greater ( hyponatremic 26.1 + / - 2.4 kg , normonatremic 24.6 + / - 1.7 kg , p less than 0.05 ) . isolated ultrafiltration was performed until a 30 % fall in mean arterial pressure occurred . body weight at the end of ultrafiltration in the hyponatremic state was still higher ( 24.7 + / - 2.4 kg ) than in the normonatremic state ( 22.9 + / - 1.5 kg , p less than 0.05 ) . at the end of ultrafiltration , similar values of blood volume ( hyponatremic 1871 + 329 ml , normonatremic 1821 + / - 267 , p not significant ) cardiac output , and total peripheral resistance were again found . the results suggest that , in this model , hyponatremia is associated with an alteration in the relationship between body water and blood volume . the excess body water is difficult to remove by isolated ultrafiltration because blood volume depletion ensues at a higher body weight . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
comparison of assays for growth hormone using monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies for diagnosis of growth disorders . current diagnostic standards for growth hormone deficiency were derived from measurement of growth hormone using polyclonal antibody assays . recently , however , immunoassays using monoclonal antibodies to growth hormone have been commercially introduced . this study compares growth hormone levels obtained with two new monoclonal assays with levels obtained with a standard polyclonal assay . in 20 patients , the polyclonal assay ( national pituitary agency ) measured a mean growth hormone concentration of 14.0 + / - 10 ( sd ) ng / dl compared with monoclonal assay 1 ( hybritech ) measurement of 10.4 + / - 7.2 ng / dl ( p less than 0.01 ) and monoclonal 2 ( wellcome co . ) measurement of 18.9 + / - 9.8 ng / dl ( p less than 0.01 ) . the hybritech monoclonal assay measured lower growth hormone levels than the polyclonal assay in all 20 patients . the wellcome assay measured higher growth hormone levels than the polyclonal assay in 17 of 20 patients . there is not complete agreement between polyclonal and monoclonal antibody growth hormone assays in their measurement of plasma growth hormone levels . clinicians using the new monoclonal antibody growth hormone assays will need to carefully develop separate diagnostic criteria for growth hormone deficiency that takes into account the disparity between the polyclonal assays that were used in the development of the current diagnostic standards and the new monoclonal antibody assays . 
catabolism and distribution of functionally heterogeneous human antithrombin iii . to test the hypothesis that binding to an endogenous heparin-like substance controls breakdown of antithrombin iii ( atiii ) in vivo , the metabolic behavior of a commercial atiii concentrate was investigated in three normal volunteers and five subjects with hereditary atiii deficiency . the concentrate , purified to homogeneity as evidenced by sodium dodecyl sulfate--gel electrophoresis , was a 2 : 1 mixture of functional atiii with heparin cofactor activity and dysfunctional atiii incapable of binding enzymes or heparin . each subject received intravenously a dose of 75 u / kg of atiii activity together with iodine 125-labeled tracer . daily fractional catabolic rates calculated from the three-exponential disappearance curves of plasma radioactivity were similar in all investigated subjects and were within the range obtained in studies using functionally homogeneous tracer . although all subjects had markedly increased atiii levels after injection of the concentrate , the relative sizes of their atiii distribution pools resembled those reported previously for people with normal atiii concentration . there was , however , a noticeably faster disappearance from plasma of excess functional atiii compared with that of atiii antigen , with mean half-lives of 47.5 + / - 9 hours and 62.3 + / - 8 hours , respectively . assuming that antigenic atiii represented both functional inhibitor and dysfunctional atiii incapable of binding heparin , these data are consistent with the supposition that interaction with endogenous heparin or a similar substance may regulate a catabolic pathway marking atiii for destruction . 
stereocilia versus kinocilia . part iii : the efferent innervation . 
a radiological assessment of the usefulness of macewen 's triangle as a surgical landmark . 
an improved morphological technique for the study of cochleotoxicity in guinea pigs . scanning electron microscopy is commonly used to study the normal or pathologically altered cochlear epithelium . it is especially useful for the study of ototoxicity in humans or animals . a cochlear microdissection technique in the guinea pig is presented which permits examination of the whole membranous cochlea with little artefactual damage to the sensory structures under study . 
vestibular effects of intravenous lidocaine used in the treatment of tinnitus . intravenous lidocaine is known to have an effect on the auditory system in that it is useful for suppressing tinnitus , albeit temporarily . we have used intravenously administered lidocaine as one of the treatment modalities for refractory , disturbing , tinnitus . its effects on the vestibulo-ocular system were determined by electronystagmography performed before and immediately after injecting lidocaine : smooth pendular stimulus tracking was unaffected ; spontaneous and positional nystagmus tended to be suppressed ; directional preponderance was reduced or reversed ; and the difference between the nystagmus responses in the two directions during the pendular rotation chair test was also reduced or reversed . these changes in the caloric and rotation tests were statistically significant . lidocaine also appeared to have altered the balance between the two sides in the vestibulo-spinal system as indicated by the results of the stepping test during craniocorpography . the results lend support to the hypothesis that intravenous lidocaine acts at the level of the central nervous system rather than at the periphery . 
experience with bilateral congenital atresia of the posterior nasal choanae . atresia of the posterior nasal choanae is an unusual congenital condition . the embryological explanation is uncertain , that felt to be the most probable being presented here . bilateral choanal atresia tends to be associated with neonatal airways obstruction and steps to be taken in its diagnosis and management are outlined . the definitive treatment of the condition is surgical excision , by either a trans-nasal or a trans-palatal approach . the conclusions arrived at as to the most effective method of management of these cases from a personal series of fourteen cases are detailed . a preference for the trans-nasal surgical approach is indicated and surgical details for this method are given , some aspects of which have not been previously reported . 
surgery of snoring . habitual , loud snoring is common in the adult population , and may be the only symptom of the more serious obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome . we report here our results of uvulo-palato-pharyngo-plasty ( uppp ) , with or without nasal surgery , for snoring . quantitative grading of the severity of the snoring shows that all patients were cured of symptomatic snoring , but that snoring was not altogether abolished in all patients . 
a simple and inexpensive method for laryngeal photography with the operating microscope . after a brief review of the history of laryngeal photography , a simple and inexpensive method as used at the ent clinic of ljubljana is described . the equipment consists of a standard 35 mm olympus om-1 camera attached to the olympus of ome-j operating microscope and an olympus t-32 flash unit connected via a large bore flexible light cable to a specially designed laryngoscope . with the equipment described excellent photographs can be obtained even in inexperienced hands without interference with endoscopic procedures . 
a comparison of endotracheal intubation and tracheostomy in the management of acute epiglottitis in children in the tropics . in children , acute epiglottitis is rapidly fatal due to airway obstruction by swollen supraglottic structures , but the oedema is short-lived . therefore , in many centres short-term endotracheal intubation has replaced tracheostomy as the method of choice for relieving the obstruction . we have tried both methods in 15 children over a period of three years under conditions of limited material and human resources . tracheostomy was found to be safer . it was concluded that it is better to have a live healthy child with a small scar in the neck than a dead child without a scar . 
arterial embolization for control of bleeding in advanced head and neck carcinoma . there are a number of patients with unresectable recurrent carcinoma of the head and neck who continue to lead a relatively functional life despite advanced local disease . for these patients bleeding from tumor represents a devastating complication that can abruptly terminate the course of an otherwise chronic disease , albeit a uniformly fatal one . the technique we describe renders a relatively safe and effective treatment that seems to control this problem . we report on our experience with three patients whose tumor bleeding was controlled by permanent intra-arterial embolization with ivalon , a polyvinyl alcohol-based foam . the technique , indications , and complications are discussed . 
malignant tumours of the tongue in young adults . experience of a secondary referral centre . twenty-three cases of malignant tongue tumours in patients aged 15 to 30 are reported . treatment and prognosis in the 18 for which follow-up information is available are discussed . the disease appears to be very similar to that in older subjects except for a greater incidence of neck node metastases . close follow-up after primary treatment is essential since there is a high possibility of recurrent disease but which may respond well to salvage surgery if identified early . a greater awareness of the occurrence of tongue cancer in young adults is also necessary . 
sjogren 's syndrome . 
round window membrane perforation--a complication of chronic suppurative otitis media . 
clinical and anatomical considerations of the tobey-ayer test in lateral sinus thrombosis . 
the hazards of ' button-sized ' batteries as foreign bodies in the nose and ear . two cases of button-sized batteries found as foreign bodies , one in the ear and one in the nose , are presented . in both cases extensive local damage had followed delayed removal of the batteries . urgent retrieval of such foreign bodies is stressed to avoid dangerous sequelae . the possible mechanisms of local tissue necrosis and subsequent complications are discussed . 
congenital mid-line sinus of the dorsum of the nose . two case reports with a literature survey . two cases of congenital mid-line sinus of the nose are presented . the etiology of the condition with emphasis on its embryology and treatment are discussed . a reversed ' u ' incision in each nostril gives a wider exposure and is more acceptable cosmetically . 
radical surgical treatment for extensive chronic fronto-ethmoidal sinusitis . an unusually extensive case of fronto-ethmoidal sinusitis is presented in which normal conservative surgical measures failed to achieve clearance . a modified form of craniofacial resection was therefore performed with effective clearance of disease . 
haxthausen 's disease . cold panniculitis in children . 
management of obesity [ letter ] 
threat of nuclear war [ letter ] 
writing an exercise prescription [ clinical conference ] 
an association between acute bronchitis and asthma . the relationship between the common acute bronchitis syndrome and atopic disease was examined using a retrospective , case-control method . the charts of 116 acute bronchitis patients and of a control group of 60 patients with irritable colon syndrome were reviewed for evidence of previous and subsequent atopic disease or asthma . bronchitis patients were more likely to have a previous history of asthma , a personal history or diagnosis of atopic disease , and more previous and subsequent visits for acute bronchitis . the main finding of the study was a tenfold increase in the subsequent visit rate for asthma in the acute bronchitis group . thirty percent of patients with acute bronchitis made return visits for unresolved cough despite an 83 percent rate of antibiotic use . these findings challenge the common belief that the symptoms of acute bronchitis are solely infectious in origin and suggest the involvement of occult bronchospasm . 
use of long half-life parenteral cephalosporins in ambulatory practice . cefonicid ( monocid ) and ceftriaxone ( rocephin ) are long half-life cephalosporins that may be used for serious infections in the outpatient setting . they may be used as an extension of initial hospital treatment , or therapy can be initiated and completed in many cases with the patient remaining at home . sufficient clinical experience exists with both ceftriaxone and cefonicid to recommend these agents for selected patients having pyelonephritis , osteomyelitis , or soft tissue infections . cefonicid , perhaps in combination with erythromycin , will provide excellent coverage for complicated community-acquired pneumonias . ceftriaxone is effective as single-dose therapy for even complicated gonococcal infections . the use of long half-life cephalosporins in ambulatory practice may result in substantial cost savings for certain patients . 
family physician recognition and treatment of severe hypercholesterolemia . family physician recognition and treatment of severe hypercholesterolemia was determined in a residency program by chart audit . two hundred seventeen clinic patients were identified as having cholesterol levels greater than 260 mg / dl . in only 47 percent of cases was the abnormality noted in the clinic record . sixty-nine percent of the patients received no treatment , 29 percent were treated with diet , and 7 percent with drug therapy . family physicians were much more likely to recognize and somewhat more likely to treat hypercholesterolemia if the level was greater than 305 mg / dl and , therefore , marked as abnormal on the laboratory report . an educational program to improve physician management of hypercholesterolemia had no significant effect . although further education using different teaching approaches may be helpful , the use of optimal rather than statistically " normal " cholesterol ranges by the laboratory may be a better way to improve physician performance . 
promotion of family enrollment in an urban family practice residency program . although a basic goal of family practice is to provide care for all members of the family , few studies have been done to test the ease of accomplishing this goal . at the downstate medical center department of family practice in brooklyn , new york , an attempt was made to increase family enrollment by introducing several educational interventions directed at patients and resident physicians . family enrollment levels were documented during a study period from june 1981 to september 1982 , and again in june 1984. both before and after the intervention efforts , family enrollment levels remained the same . it was concluded that the educational interventions used were unsuccessful in both short-term and long-term follow-up . only one subgroup that participated in a specific educational intervention ( patient orientation groups ) showed an increase in family enrollment . 
moonlighting policy and practice in family practice residencies . moonlighting by residents is a controversial , but little-studied topic . a survey on moonlighting policy and practice was sent to all family practice residency program directors , and an 87 percent response rate obtained . moonlighting is permitted by 97 percent of nonmilitary programs and is generally thought of by program directors as a positive educational experience . it is practiced by over two thirds of the second- and third-year residents in programs that monitor moonlighting . these residents spend an average of 28 hours each month moonlighting . the most commonly used moonlighting sites are hospital emergency rooms , followed by coverage for private practice physicians . seventy percent of programs require approval for extracurricular work activity . only 23 percent of residencies limit moonlighting for all residents , but 47 percent have had occasion to deny moonlighting privileges to individual residents . 
office evaluation of urinary tract infections in elderly women . 
ovarian and intrauterine heterotopic pregnancy following clomiphene ovulation induction : report of a healthy live birth . 
adjusting for selection biases in referral populations . 
population-based family practice : the next challenge of primary care . in its first 15 years family medicine has moved the focus of clinical care from the individual to the family unit . assuming responsibility for the care of a denominator population is an important challenge to primary care and a potential next step for family medicine . this paper presents a model of denominator-based practice and discusses its particular applicability to family practice . in addition to offering the potential for improving the health of its denominator population , this innovation in primary care may provide an important opportunity to lever family practice into a more favorable competitive position in the health care market . 
alzheimer neurofibrillary tangles contain phosphorylated and hidden neurofilament epitopes . three monoclonal antibodies to neurofilaments ( rt97 , bf10 and 147 ) , two of which also recognised neurofibrillary tangles ( rt97 and bf10 ) , have all been shown to be specific for phosphorylated epitopes . treatment of histological sections with alkaline phosphatase prior to immunostaining resulted in reduction of axonal neurofilament staining with all three whilst the neurofibrillary tangles staining with bf10 was unaffected . antibody 147 was found to recognise weakly some neurofibrillary tangles following alkaline phosphatase treatment . the results presented confirm the presence of structurally abnormal but phosphorylated neurofilaments in neurofibrillary tangles . 
cerebral amyloid angiopathy in dementia and old age . a necropsy study of 159 elderly patients drawn mainly from a prospectively assessed geriatric hospital population was carried out to investigate the relationship of cerebral amyloid angiopathy to alzheimer 's disease , other cns disease and ageing . about half the patients were demented and the majority of these had alzheimer 's disease . in alzheimer 's disease there was an incidence of cerebral amyloid angiopathy of 82 % . among the other groups of patients , both demented and non-demented , the incidence of cerebral amyloid angiopathy was a little over 30 % , and remained constant between 60 and 102 years of age . 
neuropsychological and psychosocial consequences of minor head injury . twenty subjects with minor head injury were compared to an uninjured group at 1 and 12 months after injury on a battery of neuropsychological and psychosocial measures . the results indicate that single minor head injury in persons with no prior compromising condition is associated with mild but probably clinically non-significant difficulties at 1 month after injury . disruptions of everyday activities , however , are extensive with other system injuries significantly contributing to these problems . recent reports in the literature may represent overestimation of head injury related losses due to lack of control for the effects of pre-injury characteristics and other system injuries . 
visual associative agnosia : a clinico-anatomical study of a single case . a single case study of a patient with visual associative agnosia is described . the patient had well preserved language , spatial , visual , and perceptual abilities but nevertheless was impaired in recognising visually presented common objects . it is argued that his deficit cannot be accounted for in terms of a disconnection syndrome . behavioural and anatomical ( mri scan ) evidence for focal unilateral dysfunction is presented . it is concluded that the left hemisphere plays a crucial role in recognising the meaning of common objects . 
brainstem haematoma due to presumed cryptic telangiectasia . three patients with primary brainstem haematoma are reported . the clinical presentation suggested an initial diagnosis of pontine tumour in two and demyelination in one patient . the subacute course is characteristic of brainstem haematoma due to presumed cryptic telangiectasia , the abnormal vessels being destroyed by the haemorrhage . these findings emphasise the importance of considering haematoma due to cryptic telangiectasia in the differential diagnosis of subacute brainstem lesions . 
is there a specific visuo-spatial impairment in parkinsonians ? twenty-five non-demented patients with mild , idiopathic , parkinson 's disease were compared with 25 age and education matched normal controls on a visuo-spatial performance task , whose characteristics were directional forecast , with minimal motor requirement and a maximal spatial load . no statistical support was found for the existence of spatial impairment in these patients . 
impairment of motor planning in patients with parkinson 's disease : evidence from ideomotor apraxia testing . compared with a group of age matched controls , patients with parkinson 's disease scored significantly lower in testing for ideomotor apraxia . imitation of movement sequences was affected more severely than performance of single movements . the degree of impairment was not related to severity of motor disability , but correlated strongly with the results of tests that measured visuospatial and visuoperceptive abilities . it is suggested that defective encoding and central processing of visuospatial information impairs memory for movement which is necessary for correct imitation of movements . enhanced vulnerability to interference between successively presented items may cause further deterioration of performance in the copying of movement sequences . 
scaling of the size of the first agonist emg burst during rapid wrist movements in patients with parkinson 's disease . rapid wrist flexion movements were studied in a group of 10 patients with parkinson 's disease both on and off their normal drug therapy , and were compared with the same movements made by a group of eight normal individuals . when normal subjects made movements through 60 degrees , the first agonist burst of emg activity in the wrist flexor muscles was longer and larger than that seen in movements of 15 degrees . if a large opposing load of 2.2 nm was added , this also increased the size and duration of the first agonist emg burst . although the movements made by the patients were slower than those of normals , the size and duration of the first agonist emg burst changed with movement size and added load in the normal way . this shows that patients can produce large , long bursts of emg activity , but that there is a failure to match these parameters appropriately to the size of movement required . the effect of levodopa therapy on the movements was not dramatic . although patients produced faster wrist movements when on medication than when off , the change was relatively small compared with the change seen in their overall clinical rating . changes in the velocity of movements at a single joint are not a good reflection of the overall clinical state of patients with parkinson 's disease . 
visual evoked cortical potentials and pattern electroretinograms in parkinson 's disease and control subjects . parkinson 's disease patients have been shown to have abnormal visually evoked cortical potentials ( veps ) to pattern stimulation . whereas dopamine is not an important neurotransmitter in the central visual pathways , the retina is rich in dopamine and , together with previous animal and human studies , this suggests that the abnormal veps in parkinson 's disease patients may be due to a biochemical and electrophysiological disorder in the retina . this hypothesis has been examined by studying the veps and pattern electroretinogram ( perg ) of parkinson 's disease patients and matched control subjects . the amplitudes of the cortical and retinal evoked potentials were significantly reduced in parkinson 's disease patients compared with the control subjects and this could not be attributed to any particular feature of the disease or its treatment . there was a significant relationship between the vep p100 latency and the perg amplitude . moreover for those subjects in whom there was an interocular difference in both cortical and retinal evoked potentials , the abnormality was more commonly found in the potentials from the same eye . these findings suggest that the abnormality of the vep in parkinson 's disease patients is , at least in part , secondary to an abnormality of the retina itself . 
clinical and experimental application of the percutaneous twitch superimposition technique for the study of human muscle activation . the use of percutaneous stimulation for twitch superimposition in the human quadriceps has been compared with stimulation via the femoral nerve . it was found that the relationship between the extra force generated by the twitch and the level of voluntary contraction was independent of the percentage of the muscle stimulated . the technique was used to study activation of the quadriceps and biceps in a group of young healthy adults , and quadriceps activation in patients with musculo-skeletal disorders . the majority of subjects could fully activate their muscles during brief isometric contractions . inhibition was demonstrated in patients with muscle pain and joint pathology and in subjects with a previous history of knee or joint injury . the technique is easy to use and provides a simple way of detecting inhibition where it might not be anticipated , such as in the absence of pain . where inhibition is demonstrated the technique can be used to predict approximately the maximum force available . 
the rigid spine syndrome . four patients are reported , 3 females and 1 male , with ( as a prominent symptom of muscle disease ) limitation of flexion of cervical and dorsolumbar spine . the nosological classification of these cases is discussed . in two patients there was evidence of an inclusion body myositis . at necropsy one of these patients had a remarkable distribution of muscle changes . 
relationship between primitive reflexes and severity in parkinson 's disease . the reliability of primitive reflexes as monitors of dementia , depression , and severity of parkinson 's disease were studied . the results indicated that the proportion of certain reflexes increased with severity of disease and cognitive impairment , but no relationship was seen between any of the reflexes and degree of depression . 
craniopharyngioma with hyperprolactinaemia due to a prolactinoma . a case is presented in which a histologically proven prolactin secreting pituitary macroadenoma was associated with a large suprasellar craniopharyngioma . the pre-operative prolactin concentration was 8180 mu / l . although hyperprolactinaemia up to 3000 mu / l in patients with a craniopharyngioma is usually due to stalk compression , greater values may indicate an associated prolactinoma . 
oligoclonal " fingerprint " of csf igg in multiple sclerosis patients is not modified following intrathecal administration of natural beta-interferon . the igg pattern in csf was studied in 11 patients with multiple sclerosis who exhibited an oligoclonal banding upon thin-layer polyacrylamide gel isoelectric focusing followed by silver stain of unconcentrated csf . each patient received beta-interferon intrathecally during a 2 month period . no modification was observed over a 6 month period . in addition , the oligoclonal pattern was remarkably unique for each individual representing a typical " fingerprint " which allowed the identification of any single csf . 
the clinical spectrum of inflammatory-angiopathic neuropathy . thirty-three patients with inflammatory-angiopathic neuropathy diagnosed by sural nerve biopsy , were investigated to determine the underlying disease . twenty-six patients had symmetrical sensorimotor polyneuropathy and seven had mononeuropathy multiplex . an aetiology for inflammatory-angiopathic neuropathy was found in only eight patients : typical collagen vascular disease in five and malignant tumour in three . sixteen patients received prednisone and / or immunosuppressive drug therapy and 12 ( 75 % ) responded to treatment . this study demonstrates that typical collagen vascular diseases are not the most common cause of inflammatory-angiopathic neuropathy , that symmetrical polyneuropathy is seen in 75.8 % of inflammatory-angiopathic neuropathy patients . prednisone and / or immunosuppressive agents appear effective regardless of aetiology . 
reversed chaddock method : a new method to elicit the upgoing great toe [ letter ] 
cognitive effects of high-dose naltrexone in patients with probable alzheimer 's disease [ letter ] 
reversible muscle spasms in hyperthyroidism [ letter ] 
kearns-sayre syndrome , hypoparathyroidism , and basal ganglia calcification [ letter ] 
meige 's syndrome and palatal myoclonus associated with brain stem stroke . a common mechanism ? [ letter ] 
cisplatin neuropathy with lhermitte 's sign [ letter ] 
respiration and sleep in parkinson 's disease [ letter ] 
senile plaques are located between apical dendritic clusters . the location of senile plaques ( sp ) in human cortex has been studied in relation to the dendritic architecture of the neocortex . senile plaques were examined in patients with normal senescence and with alzheimer 's disease . the study utilizes a monoclonal antibody to microtubule-associated protein 2 for selective immunocytochemical visualization of dendrites and thioflavin s to visualize sp . the immunocytochemical analysis demonstrated the fascicular organization of pyramidal cell apical dendrites . senile plaques were located between dendritic clusters with pyramidal cell apical dendritic shafts excluded from plaques . the close correlation between plaque diameter and interfascicular distances suggests that the boundaries of the vertically organized bundles may be an architectural constraint on plaque size . 
granular cell glioblastoma [ letter ] 
morphologic and histochemical characteristics of a spared subset of striatal neurons in huntington 's disease . we have previously found that a biochemically distinct subset of neurons , containing nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase ( nadph-d ) , is selectively resistant to the degenerative process that affects the striatum in huntington 's disease ( hd ) . we report the morphologic and histochemical characteristics of these striatal neurons and their distribution with respect to the histochemical compartments as defined by acetylcholinesterase ( ache ) activity . sections of striatum were stained histochemically for nadph-d and ache and immunocytochemically for somatostatin and neuropeptide y-like immunoreactivity . the diaphorase end-product was contained within medium-sized neurons which corresponded morphologically to a category of aspiny interneurons . combined techniques showed that nadph-d , somatostatin , and neuropeptide y coexisted within the same neurons in controls and patients with hd . the density of these neurons was greater in the ventral putamen and the nucleus accumbens than in the remainder of the striatum . the distinctive ache pattern of high and low enzyme activity was altered in hd . the ache-rich matrix zone was markedly reduced in size , while the total area of zones of low enzyme activity was not different from that found in control striatum . the relation between these ache chemical compartments and the distribution of preserved diaphorase neurons remained intact ; nadph-d neurons were predominantly observed in the matrix zone . 
neuronal rna in relation to neuronal loss and neurofibrillary pathology in the hippocampus in alzheimer 's disease . topographic analyses were performed on the distribution of neuronal rna loss in relation to local neuronal loss and neurofibrillary degeneration in the hippocampal region of brains of patients with alzheimer 's disease ( ad ) . compared to age-matched controls , pyramidal neuronal rna was depressed ( p less than 0.0001 ) in all areas of the hippocampus examined in ad , viz . , the endplate ( 33 % ) , rose 's h2 field ( 30 % ) , rose 's h1 field ( 37 % ) and the subiculum ( 46 % ) . significant neuronal loss was observed in rose 's h1 field and the subiculum but not in the endplate or rose 's h2 field . the frequency of neurofibrillary tangle-bearing neurons was enhanced in all four regions of ad brains , the number of involved neurons being markedly greater in rose 's h1 field and the subiculum than in the endplate and rose 's h2 field . overall , the data indicate the existence of a generalized disturbance in rna metabolism within pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus in ad , occurring in regions of minimal ( endplate , rose 's h2 field ) as well as those of extensive ( rose 's h1 field , subiculum ) pathological alterations . although there is focal accentuation of rna depletion in the latter , the marked rna depletion in regions of minimal pathologic change suggests that this effect is largely unrelated to local neuronal loss or neurofibrillary degeneration . 
atrophic cell processes of large motor neurons in the anterior horn in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis : observation with silver impregnation method . investigation of silver-stained lumbar anterior horns in four autopsied cases of sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( als ) revealed frequent extremely small cell processes originating from large motor neurons . their perikarya were usually smaller in size than those of normal-looking ones and almost invariably had central chromatolysis-like changes , suggesting an intimate pathomorphological relationship between the perikarya and their processes . although it was difficult to determine whether these small processes were atrophic dendrites or shrunken axons , some were recognized as dendrites from their multiple branchings and some were identified as axons from their tapering configuration followed by widening of the distal portion . aggregates of lipofuscin were almost always present in the perikaryal portion from which an atrophic process arose . in addition , the somewhat argentophilic slender cytoplasm which in normal neurons separates lipofuscin from the cell surface and merges with the proximal part of a process , was prominently attenuated . the small processes were more frequently observed in cases with many spheroids and chromatolytic neurons . the change in the proximal portion of the processes may implicate some disturbance of functional connection between the soma and the cell processes in als . 
immunohistochemistry of meningiomas including the angioblastic type . immunohistochemical techniques were used to determine the intermediate filament content of normal arachnoidal cells , meningiomas ( including the so-called hemangiopericytoma of the meninges ) , soft tissue hemangiopericytoma , and the normal pericyte . arachnoid granulations and all types of meningioma stained similarly : positive for vimentin and variably positive for keratin . soft tissue hemangiopericytomas and normal pericytes were negative for both vimentin and keratin . this suggests that the " hemangiopericytoma " of the meninges is a variant of meningioma and not of pericytic origin . 
analysis of hemangiopericytic meningiomas by immunohistochemistry , electron microscopy and cell culture . intracranial hemangiopericytic meningiomas ( hm ) from seven patients were examined by immunostaining , transmission electron microscopy ( tem ) , scanning electron microscopy ( sem ) and cell culture . positive staining for factor viii-related antigen was restricted to capillary endothelial cells . there was no reaction with anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein ( gfap ) serum or anti-s-100 protein serum . in these neoplasms tem displayed extracellular basement membrane-like material ( bmlm ) , cytoplasmic intermediate filaments ( if ) associated with a dense body , dilated rough-surfaced endoplasmic reticulum containing bmlm , a small area of interdigitation of cell membranes , and a unique intercellular punctate or linear density . by sem these tumors had intercellular shell-like or reticular structures and irregularly branched capillaries which were compressed by ellipsoidal- or carrot-shaped tumor cells . short-term monolayer culture showed rapid and vigorous growth of tumor cells , and the formation of pseudolumens but not of whorls . the tem of cultured cells also showed cytoplasmic if associated with the dense body . by sem the cultured cells were flat and had a discoid nucleus with conspicuous nucleolar hillocks . our results show that hm are mainly poorly specialized mesenchyme-related tumors of the meninges ; some possess a potential for aggressive growth and some for differentiation into smooth muscle cells . further study is needed to determine their histogenesis . 
vacor neuropathy : ultrastructural and axonal transport studies . distal axonal degeneration has been correlated with abnormalities of fast axonal transport in several toxic neuropathies . we have investigated axonal transport in experimental pnu ( n-3-pyridylmethyl-n'-p-nitrophenylurea ; vacor ) neuropathy , because of the rapid and synchronous degeneration of many terminal axons after a single dose of pnu . almost all axon terminals at neuromuscular junctions in hindfoot muscles degenerated by 24 hours after the administration of pnu . fewer affected axons were found in intramuscular nerve twigs , and fewer still in the posterior tibial nerves . no abnormal myelinated axons were found in the sciatic nerve in the thigh . fast axonal transport in the sciatic nerve remained normal to the mid-thigh , but a reduced amount of labeled transported material reached the posterior tibial nerve at the ankle ( 27 % reduction ) . autoradiography showed that nearly no transported material reached the intramuscular nerves and neuromuscular junctions of the hindfeet . these results suggest that toxic impairment of fast anterograde axonal transport may contribute to the axonal degeneration produced by pnu . 
direct determination of the attenuation coefficient for radionuclide volume measurements . correcting for the attenuation of photons between the cardiac chambers and chest surface is crucial for accurate nongeometric ventricular volume determinations from equilibrium radionuclide angiograms . previous techniques have assumed that the attenuation coefficient of water for 99mtc ( 0.15 / cm ) should be used for this correction . in this study , this assumption was tested directly by measuring attenuation of the activity of a radioactive source within the right and left cardiac chambers . the balloon of a flow-directed catheter , filled with 99mtc , was used as a source and its depth within the body was measured with biplane fluoroscopy . in ten patients , a total of 36 measurements of attenuation were made . with linear regression analysis , the overall calculated attenuation coefficient , mu , was 0.12 / cm ( standard error of slope = 0.01 , r = 0.93 ) . although the mean value of mu varied from 0.08 to 0.13 for four different intracardiac locations these differences were not significant . these direct measurements indicate that the attenuation of photons in the heart is not equivalent to that of water and suggest that an attenuation coefficient of 0.12 / cm should be used in analyzing ventricular activity . 
increased extremity uptake on three-phase bone scans caused by peripherally induced ischemia prior to injection . during arterial flow scintigraphy , increased tracer uptake in the upper extremity has been noted secondary to induced ischemia distal to blood-pressure cuffs and simple tourniquets , employed prior to the injection . we prospectively studied 68 patients undergoing three-phase bone scintigraphy to evaluate the frequency and magnitude of this artifact . the results showed that when a blood-pressure cuff was applied virtually all patients demonstrated increased activity in the extremity of cuff application . when a simple rubber tourniquet was applied few patients demonstrated the artifact . only one patient , a case of reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome , had increased uptake on blood-pool and skeletal-phase images . we recommend that in flow studies of the hands , wrists , and forearms , blood pressure cuffs not be employed and that at least 3 min should elapse between release of the occlusive device and injection . asymmetry of flow under these conditions is unlikely to be artifact . 
hodgkin 's disease with hypercalcemia detected by thallium-201 scintigraphy . a 53-yr-old man with hypercalcemia was referred after an unsuccessful operative attempt to find a parathyroid adenoma . metabolic evaluation showed relatively suppressed levels of parathyroid hormone with an elevation of serum 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d . thallium-technetium dual isotope imaging revealed localized mediastinal thallium uptake . a vascular mediastinal lesion was then demonstrated by arteriography , with subsequent surgical removal of a mass that proved to be lymphocyte predominant hodgkin 's disease . this case is noteworthy for the finding of isolated lymphocyte predominant hodgkin 's disease in the chest , the association of elevated serum 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d with hypercalcemia that resolved postoperatively , and the uptake of thallium by the tumor . 
radionuclide angiography in congenitally corrected transposition of the great vessels in an adult . the case of a 34-yr-old man with congenitally corrected transposition of the great vessels is described . both first-pass and equilibrium radionuclide angiographic data were acquired and demonstrate the value of both studies in delineating the ventricular inversion and the transposed great vessels that are characteristic of this disorder . in addition to the anatomic information , the ejection fractions of the venous and systemic ventricles at rest and during exercise , the lack of any left to right shunt , and the presence of systemic a-v valve insufficiency can all be obtained from the scintigraphic data . 
radionuclide imaging of sequential torsions of the appendix testis . radionuclide imaging is the diagnostic procedure of choice for evaluation of acute disorders of the scrotum , permitting rapid differentiation of torsion of the spermatic cord from inflammatory processes . the method is less successful in diagnosing torsion of the testicular appendages . in the majority of reported cases of torsion of the appendix testis the scan appears normal . in a very limited number of cases increased perfusion to the affected side has been noted . we report a case of metachronous torsion of both the appendices testis . in each instance , there was decreased tracer uptake on the affected side , suggestive of early torsion of the testicle . the sequential involvement of each testis with a nine month interval between respective torsions provides a unique example where each testis serves , sequentially , as a normal control for the torsed contralateral appendage . 
myocardial imaging with technetium-99m cpi : initial experience in the human . the hexakis ( isonitrile ) technetium ( i ) analog [ 99mtc ] carbomethoxyisopropyl isonitrile ( cpi ) has high myocardial uptake and rapid lung and liver clearance in most animal species . to evaluate [ 99mtc ] cpi as a myocardial imaging agent in the human , we evaluated this tracer in three normals and in six patients with coronary artery disease ( cad ) . in normals , [ 99mtc ] cpi cleared quickly from the lungs and accumulated in the liver and heart . the liver activity peaked at 10-15 min and cleared through the hepatobiliary system . planar images were of excellent technical quality with high myocardial to background ratios as early as 10 min after injection . myocardial activity fell gradually to 76.1 + / - 2.9 ( s.d. ) % of initial activity by 60 min after injection . in six patients with cad , myocardial defects were present on planar images up to 2 hr after exercise and injection . in one out of six patients , the defect was not seen 3 hr after injection . in five of the six patients , normal perfusion patterns were observed 1 hr after reinjection of cpi at rest ( 4 hr after the initial injection ) . in one patient who developed spontaneous angina prior to reinjection , the perfusion defects persisted . the repeat study 3 days later with injection of [ 99mtc ] cpi at rest was normal . technetium-99m cpi appears to have excellent physical and biologic properties for use in association with myocardial imaging with exercise . 
iodine-131 accumulation in a pericardial effusion [ letter ] 
automated edge detection techniques in intracoronary thrombolysis [ letter ] 
acnp quality assurance and practice certification committee activities [ letter ] 
clinical parameters related to optimal tumor localization of indium-111-labeled mouse antimelanoma monoclonal antibody zme-018 . radioimmunolocalization of an 111in-labeled mouse antimelanoma monoclonal antibody ( moab ) , zme-018 , was examined in 21 patients with metastatic malignant melanoma . each patient received a single . i.v. infusion of moab at concentrations ranging from 1 mg to 20 mg , coupled to 5 mci 111in by the chelating agent dpta . no toxicity was observed in any patient . total-body and regions of interest scans performed at 4 , 24 , and 72 hr following moab administration revealed uptake in 63 out of 105 previously diagnosed metastases for an overall sensitivity of 60 % . uptake was consistently observed in liver / spleen , and less frequently in bowel , testes , axillae and bone . sensitivity of detection increased significantly at doses of moab above 2.5 mg , with 74 % of lesions imaging at 20 mg / 5 mci compared with 29 % at 2.5 mg / 5 mci ( p less than 0.005 ) . a significant correlation was observed between tumor uptake of 111in-moab conjugate and increasing tumor size . soft-tissue lesions such as skin and lymph node metastases were imaged to a greater extent ( 76 % ) than visceral metastases ( 19 % ) . in five of six patients , biopsies obtained from 3 days to 14 days after moab administration showed antibody present on tumor cells as demonstrated by flow cytometry and / or radioimmunoassay . human anti-murine immunoglobulin responses were observed in seven of 17 patients studied . mean plasma clearance of zme-018 was prolonged with a t1 / 2 of 24.7 hr and increased slightly with increasing moab dose . urinary excretion of 111in averaged 12.4 % of the injected dose over 48 hours . radioimmunolocalization of melanoma with 111in-labeled zme-018 appears feasible . the sensitivity of the technique was related to dose , tumor size , and disease site . 
preliminary studies of monoclonal antibody lymphoscintigraphy in malignant melanoma . lymphoscintigraphy was performed at 3 and 20 hr following subcutaneous injection of 131i anti-melanoma antibody ( fab ) in 11 patients who had surgical resection of lymph nodes ( neck , axilla , groin ) at 24 hr for suspected metastatic melanoma . comparable amounts of 125i nonspecific control antibody ( fab ) were co-administered . six patients had nodal metastases and three showed positive images at both time periods . five patients had no metastases though one was image positive . four other nondiseased inguinal node groups were image negative . a total of 28 tumored nodes and 110 normal nodes were removed , counted and histologically examined . all metastatic tumors expressed antigen against which the specific fab was directed . the concentrations of both specific and nonspecific fab were similar in tumored nodes and both were significantly greater than in normal nodes showed essentially identical intranodal spatial distribution of the specific and control fab in areas containing tumor . these preliminary results suggest the increased concentration of murine immunoglobulin ( fab ) retained in diseased nodes was a nonspecific phenomenon . 
immunolymphoscintigraphy in patients with lymphoma after subcutaneous injection of indium-111-labeled t101 monoclonal antibody . indium-111-labeled t101 antibody was injected subcutaneously ( s.c. ) into the web spaces between the toes of two patients with cutaneous t-cell lymphoma . computer-assisted gamma scintigraphy was used to measure uptake in lymph nodes and clearance from injection sites . antibodies passed rapidly and very efficiently from the feet to the inguinal-femoral and iliac lymph nodes after s.c. administration . contrasting patterns of uptake were seen in patients with different lymph node histology , but additional experience will be required to test the possible correlation with degree of lymph node involvement . this technique provides an efficient , noninvasive method for imaging normal and abnormal lymphoid elements in regional lymph nodes , and it may prove useful in the evaluation of patients with lymphoma or other lymph node disorders . 
synthesis and characterization of congeners of misonidazole for imaging hypoxia . misonidazole is a known hypoxic cell sensitizer that binds covalently in hypoxic cells . its congeners labeled with 77br , 75br , or 18f , are likely candidates for imaging hypoxia . we have synthesized and tested [ 82br ] -4-bromomisonidazole , [ 3h ] -4-bromomisonidazole , [ 3h ] fluoromisonidazole and [ 3h ] misonidazole as prototype radiopharmaceuticals and have compared their uptake in normal and malignant tissues . the higher lipophilicity of brominated misonidazole increased its concentration in the hypoxic portion of tumors at 2 hr , but high blood levels contributed to excessive background , incompatible with imaging . hydrogen-3-fluoromisonidazole diffused into tumors at a slower rate than misonidazole but it also cleared from normal tissues so that after 2 hr tumor-to-blood ratios favorable for imaging were achieved . in the compounds that were studied , fluorine at the end of the alkyl chain is more stable in vivo than bromine on the imidazole ring . our results indicate that [ 18f ] fluoromisonidazole may be a useful tracer for imaging hypoxia at approximately 4 hr after injection . 
comparative serum stability of radiochelates for antibody radiopharmaceuticals . serum incubation of monoclonal antibodies chelate labeled by dtpa , benzyl-edta and benzyl-teta with 111in , 57co , and 67cu demonstrated marked differences in their stability . in serum , 111in-benzyl-edta-antibody was more stable than 111in-dtpa-antibody . cobalt-57 or 67cu chelated antibody were less stable than either 111in chelated antibody ; 67cu was only firmly attached to the antibody as 67cu-benzyl-teta-antibody . the relative stability of the radiometal chelated antibodies was paralleled by the relative stability in serum of the radiometal chelates themselves . these in vitro studies suggest that in vivo behavior of metal chelates exposed to a complex protein environment cannot be predicted by classical equilibrium constants . 
trends in nutrition research and research training . 
plasma , tissue and fecal cholesterol of young pigs fed restricted or liberal amounts of beef , soy or conventional diets . cholesterol disposition ( tissue deposition + fecal excretion ) was determined in young pigs fed restricted ( trial 1 ) or liberal ( trial 2 ) amounts of beef-based , soy-based or conventional swine diets . cholesterol content of diet is greater than average united states consumption per kilogram body weight but is very similar on a per-kilocalorie intake basis . both beef and soy diets contained more cholesterol ( 0.09 % by weight vs . 0 % ) and fat ( 40-50 % of calories vs . 8-9 % ) than did conventional diets . dried egg yolk was the source of cholesterol in the soy diets . beef- and soy-fed pigs had greater plasma , hdl and ldl cholesterol concentrations than did conventionally fed pigs ; beef-fed pigs had greater plasma , hdl and ldl cholesterol concentrations than did soy-fed pigs in trial 2 only . final hdl-to-ldl cholesterol ratios did not differ . neutral steroid and bile acid excretion was twofold greater in soy-fed than in conventionally or beef-fed pigs in trial 2 only . differences in cholesterol concentrations were found in liver ( soy , beef greater than conventional ) and heart ( soy greater than beef , conventional ) in trial 1 and in liver ( soy , beef greater than conventional ) , adipose tissue ( soy greater than conventional greater than beef ) and aorta and other viscera ( conventional greater than soy , beef ) in trial 2. in both trials , soy-fed pigs had greatest whole-body cholesterol concentrations . thus , in both trials , disposition of cholesterol was similar in conventionally fed and beef-fed pigs , despite greater cholesterol intake in the latter , but was greater soy-fed pigs . 
effect of dietary fat on the utilization of fatty acids by myocardial tissue in the rat . weanling rats were fed high fat diets containing 40 % of energy as fat for 23 d . diets were formulated to contain equivalent content of essential nutrients per calorie for the nonfat components . four oil mixtures provided high dietary levels of either oleic , linoleic , linolenic or erucic acid . effect of dietary fatty acid composition on the fatty acid composition of phosphatidylcholine , phosphatidylethanolamine and cardiolipin isolated from cardiac mitochondria was examined in conjunction with the effect of diet on the oxidative activity of cardiac mitochondria . dietary treatments that reduced the content of c16 : 0 in the sn-1 and sn-2 positions of phosphatidylcholine were associated with increased content of c20 : 1 and c22 : 1 fatty acids into the sn-2 position and resulted in decreased oxidative activity of cardiac mitochondria utilizing palmitylcarnitine as a substrate for oxidation . diets high in linoleic acid did not increase membrane phospholipid content of omega 3 fatty acids , but resulted in decreased level of c20 : 4 omega 6. in a subsequent perfusion experiment , hearts were removed from animals fed either high erucic or high linoleic acid diets and were perfused to examine rates of fatty acid oxidation and simultaneous synthesis of high energy phosphate compounds in cardiac muscle . diet did not affect the levels of creatine phosphate or adenine nucleotides present in the tissue on a per-gram-wet-weight basis , but production of 14co2 from beta-oxidation of palmitic acid was lower for animals fed the high erucic acid diet than for those fed the high linoleic acid diet . since this diet did not alter oxidation of palmitylcarnitine in vitro and as beta-oxidation of lauric acid was not decreased in the perfused heart , we conclude that mitochondrial oxidation of fatty acid was not altered by diet and that low rates observed for palmitate oxidation are attributable to reduced palmitylcarnitine synthesis . 
protein and energy requirements of fingerling channel catfish for maintenance and maximum growth . in two separate experiments , purified diets containing 25 % crude protein and 2.85 kcal / g and 35 % crude protein and 3.99 kcal / g were fed at incremental rates [ 0-5 % of body weight ( bw ) / d ] to fingerling channel catfish ( ictalurus punctatus ) in aquaria for 8 wk . linear ( r2 = 0.95 ) increases in growth rate were observed in each experiment with increases in feeding rate up to 8.75 g protein / ( kg bw x d ) and 99.75 kcal energy / ( kg bw x d ) . regressing growth rate back to zero resulted in maintenance requirement values of 1.32 g protein / ( kg bw x d ) and 15.06 kcal energy / ( kg bw x d ) for experiment 1 and 1.32 g protein / ( kg bw x d ) and 15.08 kcal energy / ( kg bw x d ) for experiment 2. net gains in body protein and energy also increased linearly ( r2 = 0.93 ) with increasing feeding rates up to 8.75 g protein / ( kg bw x d ) and 99.75 kcal energy / ( kg bw x d ) in both experiments . regression equations from these data predicted 1.07 g protein / ( kg bw x d ) and 17.00 kcal energy / ( kg bw x d ) in experiment 1 and 1.00 g protein / ( kg bw x d ) and 17.33 kcal energy / ( kg bw x d ) in experiment 2 was required to maintain a constant amount of protein and energy in catfish tissue . these requirement values for maintenance and maximum gain agree closely with those predicted from growth data . 
lactation in the horse : the mineral composition of mare milk . changes in the mineral composition of mare milk during lactation were studied . milk samples were obtained from five thoroughbred mares one to three times weekly from the first to the eighth week of lactation and from two of the mares for an additional 8 wk . samples averaging 500 ml were obtained after oxytocin was administered to the mares . each sample was analyzed for total solids , ash , calcium , phosphorus , magnesium , sodium , potassium , copper and zinc . the concentration of all constituents except sodium and potassium decreased throughout lactation . the rates of decline of ash , calcium , phosphorus and magnesium concentration were similar , but the rates of decline of the other elements differed . thus , the mineral composition of mare milk should be described in terms of the stage of lactation of the mare . the total solids and ash content of mare milk were 12 and 0.61 % respectively , at the end of the first week of lactation , 10.5 and 0.45 % at 4 wk , 10 and 0.38 % at 8 wk and 10.2 and 0.32 % at 16 wk . the calcium , phosphorus and magnesium concentrations at the end of the same periods were 1345 , 943 and 118 micrograms / g of milk at 1 wk ; 1070 , 659 and 86 at 4 wk ; 831 , 574 and 58 at 8 wk and 700 , 540 and 43 micrograms / g of milk at 16 wk . copper and zinc concentrations were 0.85 and 3.1 , 0.55 and 2.2 , 0.29 and 1.9 and 0.28 and 1.8 microgram / g of milk at 1 , 4 , 8 and 16 wk , respectively . 
release of zinc from maternal tissues during zinc deficiency or simultaneous zinc and calcium deficiency in the pregnant rat . earlier studies have shown that diets that increase tissue catabolism reduce the teratogenic effects of zinc deficiency . the hypothesis that zinc may be released from body tissues when the metabolic state is altered was further tested . nonpregnant sprague-dawley females were injected with 65zn ; after equilibration , the two major pools of zinc , bone and muscle had different specific activities , muscle being much higher . females were mated and fed diets adequate in zinc and calcium , deficient in zinc alone or deficient in both zinc and calcium . calculations using weight loss , zinc content of maternal bone and muscle and total zinc content of the fetus at term indicated that most of the zinc in the fetus at term in both the zinc-deficient and zinc-calcium-deficient groups came from breakdown of maternal muscle in the last 3 d of pregnancy . the relatively small amount of additional zinc released from bone in the zinc-calcium-deficient rats early in pregnancy was sufficient to prevent abnormal organogenesis . specific activity of zinc in the zinc-deficient and zinc-calcium-deficient fetuses was equal and high , indicating that most zinc in these fetuses came from maternal tissues and from the same maternal sources in both groups . in contrast , specific activity of zinc in the fetuses from rats fed adequate zinc and calcium was less than 30 % of that in either of the deficient groups ; this is consistent with the hypothesis that most zinc accrued by these fetuses came directly from the diet . 
reliability of dietary ca and p levels and bone mineral content as predictors of bone mechanical properties at various time periods in growing swine . seventy-two growing pigs were fed one of nine dietary treatments that provided a range of ca ( 0.4 % -1.2 % ) and p ( 0.4 % -1.2 % ) levels arranged in a two-factor central composite design . two pigs per treatment after either 5 ( t5 ) or 10 ( t10 ) wk and four pigs per treatment after 15 ( t15 ) wk were slaughtered , and the femur ( f ) and third ( mt3 ) and fourth ( mt4 ) metatarsal bones were collected for evaluation of mechanical properties ( force , stress and modulus of elasticity ) , ash weight ( ashw ) , percent ash ( pash ) and bone mineral content ( bmc ) using photon absorptiometry . stepwise regression analysis utilized to generate best-fit equations predicted that dietary ca and p levels could reliably predict force ( r2 = 0.83 ) , ashw ( r2 = 0.93 ) and bmc ( r2 = 0.89 ) of the mt3 bones but the prediction of force differed at the various time periods . stress ( r2 = 0.41 ) , the modulus of elasticity ( r2 = 0.29 ) and pash ( r2 = 0.17 ) were not reliably predicted by dietary mineral levels . the amount of force withstood by the mt3 bone could be reliably predicted by bmc ( r2 = 0.90 ) , but stress was not reliably predicted by bmc ( r2 = 0.40 ) even if dietary ca levels were considered . these results indicated that dietary ca levels between 0.6 % and 1.2 % and dietary p levels between 0.6 % and 0.8 % did not adversely affect growth , efficiency or bone development . the bmc , as determined by photon absorptiometry , was not a reliable predictor of bone strength . 
zinc intestinal absorption in rats : specificity of amino acids as ligands . the luminal phase of zinc intestinal absorption may be mediated by low-molecular-weight substances originated in digestive , metabolic or secretory processes . amino acids are considered primary candidates for this role through the formation of complexes with zinc . however , structural characteristics that may be indispensable for this physiological function have not been explored in vivo . we investigated the comparative effectiveness of four amino acids and their respective chemically related homologues on the absorption of zinc by the jejunum , ileum and colon of the rat using a perfusion procedure . l-tryptophan ( trp ) allowed for significantly greater zinc absorption than tryptophol ( tpl ) in all areas of the gut . l-histidine ( his ) and imidazole ( imd ) had similar effects in both the jejunum and the ileum . imd allowed for much greater zinc absorption from the colon than did his ( his , 388 + / - 31 ; imd , 937 + / - 107 pmol / min x cm , p less than 0.001 ) . proline ( pro ) was a more effective ligand than pyroglutamate ( pyr ) in the ileum ( pro , 559 + / - 19 ; pyr , 352 + / - 22 pmol / min x cm , p less than 0.001 ) , but not in the jejunum or the colon . l-cysteine was superior to n-acetyl-l-cysteine only in the ileum ( 508 + / - 45 vs . 348 + / - 25 pmol / min x cm , p less than 0.01 ) . the greater zinc absorption achieved by amino acids than by non-amino acid homologues in the small intestine appeared to be due to the presence of both mediated and nonmediated transport mechanisms for amino acids but of only nonmediated zinc uptake for the homologues . in the colon , where amino acid absorption does not take place , high structural affinity for zinc , such as that exhibited by imd , allowed for considerable absorption of the trace element . 
impaired ketogenesis in iron-deficient rat pups . livers of fe-deficient rat pups contain significantly less carnitine and more triacylglycerol ( tg ) than livers of control pups . carnitine affects ketogenesis ( kg ) , which is a vital adaptation in the neonate . to determine if kg is impaired by low carnitine in fe-deficient pup liver , ketone body synthesis was measured in liver mitochondria from 15-d-old pups . litters from fe-deficient ( -fe ) and fe-adequate ( +fe ) dams were orally supplemented with water ( w ) as a control , 18 mm ferrous sulfate , or 10 mm l-carnitine from d 8 through d 15 of lactation . the amount of ketone bodies ( beta-hydroxybutyrate + acetoacetate ) synthesized was 68 % less ( p less than 0.05 ) in -few pups than in +few pups . iron or carnitine supplementation increased kg in -fe pups to +fe kg levels , but carnitine did not affect kg in +fe pups . liver tg in +fe pups was not altered by supplementation , but liver tg was -few pups . the data support the hypothesis that in the fe-deficient suckling rat -few pups . the data support the hypothesis that in the fe-deficient suckling rat , low carnitine levels may contribute to impaired ketogenesis and increased lipids in liver . 
postweaning carnitine supplementation of iron-deficient rats . severe iron deficiency in the suckling and weanling rat is associated with lipid accumulation in serum and liver , impaired ketogenesis in the suckling pup and low levels of carnitine in some tissues . carnitine has been effective in reducing high triacylglycerol levels in humans and rats . this study examined tissue triacylglycerol concentrations of iron-deficient rats supplemented with carnitine or iron . iron-adequate ( c ) and iron-deficient ( d ) pups were weaned to diets containing 38 ppm fe ( c ) or 6 ppm fe ( d ) with or without 0.2 % dl-carnitine ( carn ) resulting in six experimental treatments : cccarn , ddcarn , cc , cd , dc , dd . males received the diets for 2 wk and female littermates for 4. after 2 and 4 wk , carnitine supplementation significantly increased carnitine content in liver , heart and skeletal muscle by 30-60 % in rats from control and fe-deficient dams . carnitine treatment significantly lowered the triacylglycerol level in liver of 49-d-old fe-deficient females , but did not affect other tissues at either time point compared to other dietary treatments . fe supplementation did not increase carnitine content in tissues , but did reduce triacylglycerol levels in liver by 4 wk and in skeletal muscle at both time points . possible mechanisms by which iron and carnitine may lower lipids are discussed . 
respective contribution of plasma branched-chain amino acids and 2-keto acids to the hepatic metabolism of the carbon moiety of branched-chain amino acids in fed rats . the splanchnic balances of branched-chain amino acids ( bcaa ) and ketoacids ( bcka ) concentrations were compared in rats fed a 15 % ( basal ) or a 70 % ( hp ) casein diet . arterial bcaa concentrations were four- to fivefold and bcka concentrations were twofold higher in rats fed hp diet than in rats fed basal diet . in rats fed basal diet , a higher proportion ( 45-58 % ) of bcka was removed by the liver than of bcaa ( 7-12 % ) . thus , plasma bcka were probably the major source of substrates for hepatic bcka dehydrogenase . in rats fed hp diet , hepatic uptake of bcaa was 10 times greater than in rats fed basal diet , owing to their higher extraction ; bcka uptake was only twice as great ; thus bcka were a minor source of substrates for hepatic metabolism . in both diet groups , uptake of ketomethylvalerate ( kmv ) was less efficient than ketoisovalerate ( kiv ) or ketoisocaproate ( kic ) uptake . studies of metabolism of intraportal loads of bcka showed that capacities for kiv and kic uptake were high , kmv uptake plateaued at lower portal concentrations . with hp diets , the liver may be the major site of bcaa utilization ; the interorgan transfer of the carbon moiety of bcaa to the liver as ketoacids does not keep pace with an increased availability of bcaa . 
apparent small intestinal absorption of nitrogen and minerals from soy and meat-protein-based diets . a study on human ileostomy subjects . the apparent absorption of nitrogen and minerals was studied in 8 ileostomy subjects . four different test diets containing 60 g of meat , rice and bread protein , or a 25 % replacement of the protein with soy flour , soy concentrate or soy isolate , were randomly assigned to the subjects in 2-d periods . all animal protein was replaced by soy isolate for a fifth 2-d period in two of the subjects . ileostomy contents were collected in 2-h intervals during the day and in one portion during night and immediately deep-frozen . the fiber components and the phytic acid in the diet were almost completely recovered in the ileostomy contents , whereas unabsorbed starch was less than 2 % of the intake . a significantly lower protein digestibility was observed when the diets containing soy protein were fed . no difference in protein digestibility was found between the different soy protein products . a 25 % replacement by soy protein had no obvious effect on apparent mineral absorption . a low protein digestibility was also observed when soy was the main source of protein , and a negative apparent absorption of zinc was found in both subjects . although 25 % of soy protein in the diet does not seem to impair mineral absorption significantly , small intestinal net absorption of nitrogen is less from the soy diets than from the meat diet . 
contrasting effects of the stomach and small intestine of rats on copper absorption . since the severity of copper deficiency has been shown to be enhanced by feeding diets containing fructose but ameliorated by diets containing starch , we decided to investigate the effect of fructose or starch on copper absorption . as copper transport has been reported to occur also from the stomach , it was possible that copper absorption is inhibited by fructose already from that tissue . under anesthesia , stomachs of 72 rats fed copper-deficient or supplemented diets containing fructose or starch were ligated prior to the oral administration of 64cu . gastric absorption of 64cu was studied when the isotope was administered by gastric tube either in diet containing fructose or starch or in water . 64cu was not absorbed from the stomach regardless of the type of dietary treatment , copper status or whether the copper was administered either in diet or in water . in addition , the absorption of 64cu from a diet containing either fructose or starch or from a saline solution was studied using the isolated ligated duodenal loop . when 64cu was administered with dietary fructose 64cu retention and absorption were impaired when compared to starch . when 64cu was administered in saline solution , differences in retention and absorption between the four dietary groups disappeared . it is suggested that the requirements for copper rather than the decreased absorption of copper are responsible at least in part for the more pronounced severity of copper deficiency in rats fed fructose compared to those fed starch . 
effects of body size on kinetics of glucose metabolism and on nitrogen balance in growing cattle . effects of body size on the kinetics of glucose metabolism were examined . in trial 1 , steers were fed 6 kg of an 80 : 20 concentrate : roughage diet daily across a weight range of 226 to 470 kg . in trial 2 , steers were fed 4.5 kg of a 45 : 55 concentrate : roughage diet daily across a weight range of 134 to 390 kg . glucose irreversible loss averaged 820 + / - 32 and 461 + / - 13 mg / min for trials 1 and 2 and was not affected by body size . thus , glucose irreversible loss seems to be regulated by feed intake when intake is above maintenance . body size had no effect on glucose total entry rate , recycling or pool size . blood glucose concentration and glucose space decreased at 0.004 mg x ml-1 x kg-1 and 0.002 fractional units body wt x kg-1 as body size increased . digestible energy and nitrogen balance were measured in trial 2. digestibility of energy increased at 0.0054 mcal x d-1 x kg-1 as body size increased . nitrogen retention averaged 28.2 g x d-1 and was not influenced by body size even though energy intake approached maintenance amounts at the end of the trial . on the basis of urinary nitrogen excretion data , we conclude that the maximum net contribution of amino acid carbon to glucose synthesis was 8 % of glucose carbon . 
meal-timing , circadian rhythms and life span of mice . the possibility that circadian rhythm alteration may contribute to the life-prolonging effect of food restriction was investigated in female cd2f1 mice housed in a room with a 12-h span of fluorescent lighting daily . a control group was allowed to feed ad libitum throughout life while three other groups began lifelong restriction to about 75 % of ad libitum intake when 6 wk old . the daily schedule of food accessibility differed among these three groups : a single meal during early darkness ; a single meal during early light ; six smaller meals at about 2-h intervals during darkness . food restriction as such clearly prolonged life , but there were no statistically significant differences in overall mean life span or in 10th-decile life span among the three restricted groups . telemetered body temperature data confirmed marked differences in the effects of these different restricted feeding schedules on circadian rhythms . the effect of food restriction on survival is probably not due to altered relations among circadian rhythmic variables . possible contributing factors suggested by the results are a lower body temperature , a reduced overall metabolic rate and an increased circadian amplitude . 
dose-dependent lipotropic effect of carnitine in chronic alcoholic rats . the objective of this study was to determine if the lipotropic effect of supplementary dl-carnitine was dose dependent . male sprague-dawley rats were fed for 45 d a liquid ethanol diet in which 36 % of the total energy was derived from ethanol . the ethanol diet , containing 1.27 g l-carnitine per g of the diet , was fed as such or was supplemented with 0.1 % , 0.4 % , 0.8 % , 1.2 % , or 1.6 % ( wt / wt ) dl-carnitine . results showed a definite inverse relationship between the concentrations of lipids and those of carnitine fractions in both plasma and liver . the concentrations of total lipids and triglycerides were significantly lower with increasing levels of supplementary carnitine , whereas those of carnitine fractions were significantly higher than in controls up to 0.8 % supplemental carnitine . the changes in the plasma and hepatic concentrations of various classes of lipid and carnitine were inversely related and were found to be progressive up to 0.8 % dl-carnitine supplementation . therefore , it was concluded that the lipotropic effect of dietary carnitine is dose dependent , and that the optimal supplementary level is 0.8 % dl-carnitine . 
influence of saponins on gut permeability and active nutrient transport in vitro . the influence of four saponins , three triterpenoid glycosides and one steroidal amine glycoside , upon intestinal transport was investigated in vitro . in the presence of gypsophylla saponin , carrier-mediated galactose transport was inhibited , although the uptake of the passively transported l-isomer of glucose increased . the uptake of the extracellular space marker , polyethylene glycol 4000 , was also higher , indicating that the saponin inhibited active transport by increasing the general permeability of the enterocytes . gypsophylla saponin , in contact only with the mucosal surface of everted jejunal sacs , induced a rapid decline in glucose-stimulated transmural potential difference . the rate of decline increased as the saponin concentration was raised over the approximate range of 0.3 to 8 mm . saponaria saponin and alpha-tomatine also reduced transmural potential difference , but soya saponins were much less effective . the results indicate that some saponins readily increase the permeability of the small intestinal mucosal cells , thereby inhibiting active nutrient transport , and facilitating the uptake of materials to which the gut would normally be impermeable . 
calcium and osteoporosis . 
observer variability in the pulmonary examination . observer variability in the pulmonary examination was assessed by having four blindfolded observers ( two medical students and two pulmonary physicians ) twice examine 31 patients with abnormal pulmonary findings . examiners were consistent in the repetitive detection of pulmonary abnormalities in 74-89 % of the examinations ; conversely , 11-26 % of the time they disagreed with themselves . although pulmonary specialists recorded fewer ( 55 % of observations ) abnormal findings than did medical students ( 74 % ) , they were significantly ( p = 0.008 ) less self-consistent than were the students . there was no clear trend in agreement between examiners ( kappa = 0.20-0.49 ) . each examiner 's findings were compared with those of physicians specially trained in pulmonary examination . dichotomous variables ( wheezes , crackles , rubs ) were more reliably detected ( kappa = 0.30-0.70 ) than graded variables ( tympany , dullness , breath sound intensity ) , where kappa = 0.16-0.43 . the authors suggest that dichotomous variables deserve greatest clinical reliance ; that time in training , alone , does not improve clinical performance ; and that there is a disconcertingly large amount of inter- and intraobserver disagreement in this fundamental clinical task . 
quality of life and resuscitation decisions in elderly patients . quality of life considerations may be an important factor in medical decisions , but it is not known how well physician 's assessments match those of their patients . the authors studied the assessments of elderly inpatients ( n = 65 ) and their physicians ( n = 50 ) concerning patient quality of life and resuscitation decisions for the patients ' current health situations and for two hypothetical situations . physicians rated current patient quality of life more negatively than did patients ; differences ranged from 0.35 to 0.80 on a 5-point scale with end points labeled " very poor quality of life " and " possible to have good quality of life . " physicians were also less likely to favor resuscitation in the two hypothetical scenarios ( p less than 0.01 ) ; differences ranged from 0.66 to 1.40 on a 5-point scale with end points labeled " definitely yes " and " definitely no . " in both patient and physician groups , quality of life assessments were significantly correlated with resuscitation decisions for some situations but not for others . these results indicate that elderly patients and their physicians may differ on patient quality of life assessments and that these assessments may be associated with resuscitation decisions . 
the prognosis of hyponatremia at hospital admission . to assess the risk of mortality in patients with hyponatremia at the time of hospital admission , the authors studied data for 13 , 979 patients admitted over a 46-month period . of the 763 ( 4 % ) admitted with hyponatremia , 757 ( 99 % ) were matched by age , gender , and admitting date with normonatremic control patients . hyponatremic patients were more than seven times as likely to die in the hospital than the control patients , and they were more than twice as likely to die after discharge ( p less than 0.0001 for both ) . this relationship with in- and outpatient mortality held when controlling for the diagnoses found more often in the hyponatremic patients . hyponatremia appears to be an indicator of increased risk of death regardless of the disease with which it is associated . 
the diagnostic usefulness of the history of the patient with dyspnea . the diagnostic usefulness of the medical history may depend on the type of problem confronted . it has been suggested that dyspnea is an example of a condition the causes of which cannot be easily distinguished based on identification in the history of stereotypical disease patterns presented in standard texts . to evaluate this assertion , faculty members independently interviewed 146 consecutively admitted patients with dyspnea , and following the history of the present illness , made a diagnosis . after discharge of the patients , another faculty member , using preselected criteria , independently reviewed each record to make a final diagnosis . history-based diagnoses predicted final diagnoses 74 % of the time . therefore , the history appeared to be useful in identifying the primary diagnosis for most dyspneic patients admitted to the hospital . however , it is not known whether this identification provides sufficient rationale for therapy or leads to more efficient use of laboratory tests . 
modification of residents ' behavior by preceptor feedback of patient satisfaction . the authors tested the effect of preceptor feedback to residents of patients ' ratings of perceived art and technical quality of care on residents ' subsequent performances . new ambulatory patients were asked to complete questionnaires measuring satisfaction with physician behavior during initial encounters . sixty-eight residents were evaluated by 424 patients over a six-month period . continuing residents with the lowest scores were assigned to a feedback or a non-feedback group . residents in the feedback group were individually shown their mean scores on each item , as well as scores for all residents , and were then advised of physicians ' behaviors that could increase patient satisfaction . during a subsequent six-month survey of new patients , scores in the feedback group improved more than those in the non-feedback group in art of care , technical quality , and total patient satisfaction ( p less than 0.001 ) . 
presbycusis and communication . impaired hearing , so common among older people , often has disastrous consequences . the infirmity , too frequently concealed or unknown by the patient , is invisible to others . disability and frustration can be lessened considerably by greater awareness on the part of medical and lay people about various helpful measures , which are currently under-utilized . we offer some practical suggestions : well-trained audiologists can help with both hearing aids and rehabilitation ; groups for the hard of hearing can be supportive . the number and varieties of helpful devices increase steadily . medical personnel , families , and the general public need to learn more about communicating with these people , who need help , often desperately . 
the search for more clinically meaningful research designs : single-patient randomized clinical trials [ editorial ] 
causal versus clinical interpretation [ editorial ] 
academic general medicine and motherhood : in search of a balance [ editorial ] 
general medicine conferences [ letter ] 
new-onset atrial fibrillation [ letter ] 
atrial fibrillation , stroke , and anticoagulation [ letter ] 
efficacy of thromboresistant umbilical artery catheters in reducing aortic thrombosis and related complications . previous in vitro and in vivo reports suggest that catheters constructed of polyurethane with heparin bonded to the surface ( hb-pu ) are less thrombogenic than catheters made of polyvinyl chloride ( pvc ) . a randomized trial sufficiently large ( power 80 % ) to detect a reduction in the incidence of umbilical artery ( ua ) catheter complications , including aortic thrombus formation , from 45 % to 20 % was conducted in 125 infants . the infants were monitored for complications possibly related to the use of a ua catheter , such as systemic hypertension and abnormalities of lower extremity perfusion . the presence of aortic thrombi was assessed by ultrasound study 3.5 + / - 1.2 ( sd ) days and 11.1 + / - 2.3 days after insertion of the catheter . the use of hb-pu umbilical catheters did not lead to a significant reduction in the incidence of complications and aortic thrombi compared with the use of pvc catheters . the lack of reduction may have been related to the prolonged duration of catheter use in both groups . a much larger study would have been required to detect a smaller , but perhaps clinically significant , reduction in catheter-associated complications . 
prenatal development of lung antioxidant enzymes in four species . we examined the chronology of development of both fetal lung antioxidant enzymes ( superoxide dismutase , catalase , and glutathione peroxidase ) and disaturated phosphatidylcholine ( " surfactant " ) during late gestation in four laboratory animal species : rat , rabbit , hamster , and guinea pig . an essentially similar pattern of prenatal biochemical maturation was found in all four species . the developmental changes were characterized by ( 1 ) rapid elevations in fetal lung antioxidant enzyme levels during the final 10 % to 15 % of gestation , and ( 2 ) an essentially parallel rapid rise in lung surfactant content during the final 10 % to 15 % of gestation . the increase in the lung activity of the individual antioxidant enzymes prior to birth averaged approximately 150 % to 200 % . our findings suggest that late gestational changes in the principal pulmonary antioxidant defense system ( like the changes in the surfactant system ) represents a normal " preparation for birth , " required to assure successful functioning of the neonatal lung in the relatively oxygen-rich ex utero environment . 
effects of metaproterenol on pulmonary mechanics , oxygenation , and ventilation in infants with chronic lung disease . changes in pulmonary resistance , dynamic compliance , tidal volume , and transcutaneous po2 and pco2 after nebulized administration of metaproterenol were evaluated in eight newborn infants ( birth weight 650 to 1060 g , gestational age 25 to 28 weeks ) with chronic lung disease receiving mechanical ventilation . the infants were monitored continuously before and for 15 minutes after nebulization of metaproterenol during 3 consecutive days at mean age 34 days . there were significant increases in compliance , tidal volume , and tcpo2 , and significant decreases in pulmonary resistance and tcpco2 . these data show that bronchospasm contributes significantly to the high pulmonary resistance in preterm infants with chronic lung disease and that metaproterenol is beneficial in the therapy of infants with chronic lung disease requiring mechanical ventilation . 
serum glucose levels in term neonates during the first 48 hours of life . 
serum adrenal steroid levels in healthy full-term 3-day-old infants . 
feasibility of prenatal diagnosis of nonketotic hyperglycinemia : existence of the glycine cleavage system in placenta . 
acute peritoneal dialysis in infants weighing less than 1500 g . 
single-dose gentamicin therapy of recurrent urinary tract infection in patients with normal urinary tracts . results of single-dose therapy of urinary tract infections in pediatric patients have been contradictory mainly because of selection criteria . we evaluated the efficacy of a single dose of gentamicin in patients with normal urinary tracts and in whom urinary tract infections were recurrent . twenty-one patients were included in the study , and a similar number in a conventional group given treatment for 10 days . cure rate was 100 % in both groups . the recurrence rates of 67 % in the study and 52 % in the conventional group were comparable . single-dose therapy seems to have a role in the treatment of urinary tract infection in the absence of urinary tract malformation . 
enhancement of linear growth and weight gain by cyproheptadine in children with hypopituitarism receiving growth hormone therapy . cyproheptadine ( cp ) , an antihistamine serotonin antagonist drug with appetite-stimulating activity , was given to children with growth hormone ( gh ) deficiency to test the hypothesis that increased weight gain would enhance the effect of gh on linear growth . six patients with idiopathic gh deficiency received gh 0.08 u / kg three times per week plus cp 0.25 to 0.4 mg / kg / day for 4-month periods , alternating with 4-month periods of gh plus placebo , on average for 16 months . overall , height velocity ( hv ) increased from 9.1 + / - 2.4 with gh alone to 12.1 + / - 2.1 cm / yr with gh-cp ( p = 0.01 ) and weight velocity ( wv ) increased substantially from 1.3 + / - 1.3 to 7.8 + / - 3.6 kg / yr ( p = 0.01 ) . for 10 of 11 8-month treatment intervals completed , hv was greater during gh-cp treatment than during gh alone , and there was a good correlation between hv and wv for each 4-month observation period ( r = 0.64 , p less than 0.002 ) . these findings should be considered preliminary because of the small number of patients , but suggest that weight gain induced by cyproheptadine results in improved linear growth in patients given gh and that this drug may be useful in optimizing the response to gh therapy . 
comparison of dose frequency of human growth hormone in treatment of organic and idiopathic hypopituitarism . two weekly ( biw ) injections of pituitary human growth hormone ( hgh ) were compared with three weekly ( tiw ) injections of hgh ( 0.24 iu hgh / kg body weight / wk for both groups ) for effect on growth rate in children with idiopathic and organic hypopituitarism . both dosage schedules resulted in increased growth rate during the first 12 months of therapy ; the tiw dosage was more effective in the first 6 months in patients with organic hypopituitarism , and in the second 6 months in patients with idiopathic hypopituitarism . there was no advantage to tiw therapy during the second year of therapy in either group . the additional increment in height after 1 year of therapy using tiw compared with biw therapy was 2 cm and 1 cm for the patients with organic and idiopathic hypopituitarism , respectively . this increment should be weighed against the cost , pain , and inconvenience of tiw versus biw doses of hgh in the treatment of hgh deficiency . with the dosages used in this study , tiw therapy was more effective during the first year , when patients are more responsive , and should be recommended . twice weekly therapy could be considered for the second and possibly subsequent years of therapy . other schedules of treatment may be more effective than either of these schedules . 
bronchodilator effects of oral metaproterenol sulfate in preschool children with asthma . 
determination of brain death . ad hoc committee on brain death . 
effect of blood exchange on acyclovir clearance in an infant with neonatal herpes . 
reappraisal of " fenfluramine and autism : careful reappraisal is in order " [ letter ] 
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in total lipodystrophy : insulin action in the face of insulin resistance ? [ letter ] 
immune function in hemophiliacs [ letter ] 
diagnosis of acquired subglottic stenosis [ letter ] 
transplacental passage of acyclovir [ letter ] 
early treatment with erythromycin for campylobacter jejuni-associated diarrhea [ letter ] 
acquisition of cytomegalovirus infection from birth to 10 years : a longitudinal serologic study . we performed serial serologic tests for cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) antibody in 177 children born to low- and middle-income families in houston from 1975 to 1983. mean duration of participation in the study was 4.8 years ( range 1 to 9.6 years ) . most rapid acquisition of antibody occurred during the first and second years of life , 13.6 % and 12 % , respectively ; thereafter , annual acquisition varied from 1.5 % to 4.6 % , up to 10 years . overall , 59 ( 33 % ) of the group were known to seroconvert by age 10 years . this was a minimal figure because of loss to follow-up . analysis by the kaplan-meier method indicated that the probability of remaining seronegative was 65 % at age 6 years , and 58 % at age 8 years . variables positively related to seroconversion by multivariate analysis were order of birth , seroconversion in a family member , and breast-feeding . during the first year of life , acquisition of cmv antibody was related to the seroimmune status of the mother . the variables of socioeconomic status , race , age of the mother , and attendance in a day care center did not appear to be related to seroconversion in these children . 
syndrome of periodic fever , pharyngitis , and aphthous stomatitis . a syndrome of periodic fever that resembles human cyclic neutropenia in its clinical presentation has been identified in 12 children observed at two major referral centers . attacks characterized by abrupt onset of fever , malaise , chills , aphthous stomatitis , pharyngitis , headache , and tender cervical adenopathy occur at 4- to 6-week intervals over periods of years . these episodes of illness resolve spontaneously in 4 to 5 days . mild leukocytosis and elevation of the erythrocyte sedimentation rate during attacks are the only laboratory abnormalities . affected children grow normally , are not unusually susceptible to infection , and exhibit no long-term sequelae . attacks may be aborted by short courses of prednisone but do not respond to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents . this syndrome is sporadic and appears to be much more common than cyclic neutropenia . 
transient hypogammaglobulinemia of infancy : need to reconsider name and definition . twenty-three infants with diminished levels of one or more immunoglobulin isotypes , intact antibody producing capacity , and a generally benign clinical course were initially diagnosed as having transient hypogammaglobulinemia of infancy . prospective evaluation of these infants , including seven to age 60 months , revealed that acquisition of normal immunoglobulin levels was often delayed beyond infancy . in some cases the diminished immunoglobulin levels were a prodrome of selective lga deficiency . these children seemed to experience frequent sinopulmonary infections early in life , but fewer with age . none of these children received exogenous gammaglobulin . the designation of transient hypogammaglobulinemia of infancy is a misnomer , and the diagnosis , even if accepted , can be made only in retrospect . the alternative designation hypogammaglobulinemia of early childhood is suggested , to which can be added " with recovery " or " with development of other dysgammaglobulinemia , " depending on the eventual phenotype observed . 
endogenous catabolism is the major source of toxic metabolites in isovaleric acidemia . a patient with isovaleryl-coenzyme a dehydrogenase deficiency was given a synthetic oral feed containing l- ( 2h3-methyl ) -leucine of high isotopic purity as the only dietary precursor to the defective enzyme . metabolites derived from this source were readily distinguished from their unlabeled endogenous counterparts by mass spectrometry . during 6 consecutive days of labeled leucine ingestion , the average daily excretion of labeled metabolites was only about 10 % of the total derived from leucine . it is suggested that therapy should be directed toward the control of endogenous protein turnover rather than the restriction of dietary protein intake . 
correlation between polymorphic dna haplotypes at phenylalanine hydroxylase locus and clinical phenotypes of phenylketonuria . eight polymorphic sites for seven restriction endonucleases have been reported at the human phenylalanine hydroxylase locus . the composite profile of the presence or absence for each of the eight polymorphic sites within an allele defines the haplotype of the corresponding allele . twelve such haplotypes associated with normal and mutant phenylalanine hydroxylase alleles have been identified in 33 danish families with children with phenylketonuria . of the 66 mutant alleles analyzed , 59 ( 89 % ) were associated with only four haplotypes . the identification of individual phenylalanine hydroxylase alleles by haplotype analysis enables correlation of the hyperphenylalaninemic phenotypes of the patients with their genotypes . patients who were either homozygous or heterozygous for the mutant alleles of haplotypes 2 and 3 had a severe clinical course . patients who had a mutant allele of either haplotype 1 or 4 usually had a less severe clinical phenotype . the recent demonstration that the mutation responsible for classic phenylketonuria associated with haplotype 3 is not present in mutant alleles of other haplotypes provides unambiguous evidence that there are multiple mutations in the phenylalanine hydroxylase gene and supports the hypothesis that different combinations of mutant alleles may be responsible for the clinical diversity of phenylketonuria . 
rapp-hodgkin ectodermal dysplasia . rapp-hodgkin ectodermal dysplasia is an autosomal dominant condition characterized by distinctive craniofacies , cleft lip or palate , dental hypoplasia with caries , dystrophic nails , and decreased to absent sweat glands and hair follicles . we report the third family to be described , and distinguish the condition from similar syndromes . 
bone fragility , craniosynostosis , ocular proptosis , hydrocephalus , and distinctive facial features : a newly recognized type of osteogenesis imperfecta . we report two infants with bone deformities and multiple fractures reminiscent of osteogenesis imperfecta , but also having ocular proptosis with orbital craniosynostosis , hydrocephalus , and distinctive facial features . both infants were normal at birth , but multiple compression fractures of the long bones were noted shortly thereafter , followed by extensive demineralization and culminating in recurrent diaphyseal fractures of the weight-bearing bones before the first birthday . the striking similarity of both the distinctive dysmorphic features and the unique pattern of fractures in two unrelated individuals suggests that this is a previously unrecognized form of osteogenesis imperfecta . despite the craniosynostosis and hydrocephalus , intellectual performance is unimpaired in both individuals . bone biopsy in one patient revealed decreased bone volume and increased bone resorption without compensatory new bone formation . extensive laboratory investigations have not identified a cause , nor have they clarified pathogenesis ; further elucidation will require the identification and study of new cases . 
human parvovirus infection in patients with sickle cell disease with and without hypoplastic crisis . 
is brain death really cessation of all intracranial function ? 
virus-specific ige and igg4 antibodies in serum of children infected with respiratory syncytial virus . 
lack of transmission of hepatitis b in a day care center . 
teratogenicity of cocaine in humans [ published erratum appears in j pediatr 1987 mar ; 110 ( 3 ) : 350 ] to study teratogenicity of cocaine in humans , we studied three groups of pregnant women and their offspring : group 1 , 50 women who abused cocaine only ; group 2 , 110 women who were polydrug abusers ; and group 3 , 340 who were drug free . all three groups were similar for socioeconomic status , cigarette smoking , and ethnicity . maternal age of group 1 was similar to that of group 3 , but group 2 mothers were significantly older . gravidity was significantly higher in groups 1 and 2 compared with group 3. no statistical difference was found in spontaneous abortion rate among the three groups , but the stillbirth rate was significantly higher in group 1 ( chi 2 = 6.89 , p less than or equal to 0.01 ) . all stillbirths were related to abruptio placentae . birth weight , length , and head circumference were significantly decreased in infants in groups 1 and 2 compared with group 3 ( p less than or equal to 0.0001 ) , but no statistical difference was found between groups 1 and 2. the congenital malformation rate was significantly higher in group 1 compared with group 3 ( chi 2 = 7.07 , p less than or equal to 0.01 ) . we conclude that cocaine abuse in humans significantly reduces weight of the fetus , increases the stillbirth rate related to abruptio placentae , and is associated with a higher malformation rate . 
intrauterine herpes simplex virus infections . neonatal herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) infection is usually acquired at birth , although a few infants have had findings suggestive of intrauterine infection . we describe 13 babies who had clinical manifestations of intrauterine hsv infection , including skin lesions and scars at birth ( 12 ) , chorioretinitis ( eight ) , microcephaly ( seven ) , hydranencephaly ( five ) , and microphthalmia ( two ) . all infants had combinations of these defects . infection was proved by viral isolation in each case ; all isolates were hsv-2 . two infants died during the first week of life ; 10 of the surviving infants had severe neurologic sequelae , and one infant was blind . four mothers experienced an apparent primary genital hsv infection , and one had recurrent infection , at varying times during gestation . the remaining women denied a history of symptoms of genital hsv infection . these findings indicate that intrauterine hsv infection can occur as a consequence of either primary or recurrent maternal infection and has severe consequences for the fetus . 
bovine anterior descending coronary artery possesses a homogeneous population of beta-1 adrenergic receptors . isolated vessel rings from the proximal and distal ends of the bovine anterior descending coronary artery were mounted in tissue baths for the measurement of isometric contraction . these rings were pre-exposed to phenoxybenzamine to block tissue catecholamine uptake and alpha adrenoceptors . they were then contracted with high potassium , and beta adrenergic agonist dose-relaxation response curves were obtained in the presence and absence of beta antagonists . the orders of agonist potency in the arterial rings were the same as that in spontaneously beating guinea pig atria : isoproterenol ( iso ) greater than norepinephrine ( ne ) greater than fenoterol ( fe ) greater than salbutamol ( sa ) and differed from that in the guinea pig trachea : iso greater than fe greater than sa greater than ne . schild analysis yielded propranolol pa2 values in the coronary artery rings which did not differ between the four agonists studied or between the proximal and distal ends of the coronary artery . similar results were obtained with practolol and butoxamine with the exception that in the case of butoxamine , a higher pa2 value was obtained against iso in the distal ring preparations . the practolol and butoxamine pa2 values in the artery rings matched the respective--log kb values obtained in the guinea pig atria using ne as the agonist but were the reverse of those obtained in the guinea pig trachea using either fe or sa as the agonist . it is concluded that the proximal and distal ends of the bovine anterior descending coronary artery possess a homogeneous population of beta-1 adrenergic receptors . 
alpha adrenoceptor regulation of coronary artery blood flow in normal and stenotic canine coronary arteries . the response of systemic blood pressure , heart rate , lead ii ecg and left circumflex ( lcx ) coronary artery blood flow to left cardiac sympathetic nerve stimulation was measured in pentobarbital-anesthetized , open chest , spinal transected and vagotomized dogs . after beta adrenoceptor blockade , left cardiac sympathetic nerve stimulation produced frequency dependent decreases in lcx blood flow . selective alpha-2 adrenoceptor blockade with idazoxan produced a greater inhibition of this decrease in lcx blood flow than did selective alpha-1 adrenoceptor blockade with prazosin . in an additional population of dogs which were similarly prepared but were not spinally transectioned or pretreated with a beta adrenoceptor antagonist , left cardiac sympathetic nerve stimulation produced an increase in lcx blood flow in all animals which reached a maximum within 40 sec , and then began to decline slowly . however , after beta adrenoceptor blockade , identical stimulation parameters produced only a decline in lcx blood flow which returned to the level of control resting blood flow by the end of the stimulation period . both selective alpha-2 adrenoceptor blockade with idazoxan and selective alpha-1 adrenoceptor blockade with prazosin produced an inhibition of the lcx blood flow decrease provoked by left cardiac sympathetic nerve stimulation in dogs pretreated with beta adrenoceptor antagonists . idazoxan produced a slightly greater inhibition of the lcx blood flow decrease than did prazosin , suggesting a greater role for postjunctional vascular alpha-2 adrenoceptors in lcx blood flow regulation during cardiac sympathetic nerve stimulation . the presence of a severe coronary artery stenosis reduced , but did not inhibit , the increase in lcx blood flow in response to cardiac sympathetic nerve stimulation . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
nifedipine attenuates both alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenoceptor-mediated pressor and vasoconstrictor responses in conscious dogs and primates . effects of the calcium channel blocker , nifedipine , were examined on the pressor and vasoconstrictor responses to stimulation of alpha-1 and alpha-2-adrenoceptors in chronically instrumented conscious dogs and rhesus monkeys . norepinephrine ( ne ) , a mixed alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist , phenylephrine ( pe ) and methoxamine ( m ) , selective alpha-1 adrenoceptor agonists , and b-ht 920 , a selective alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist , were injected i.v. after ganglionic ( hexamethonium ) , beta adrenoceptor ( propranolol ) and muscarinic receptor ( atropine methyl bromide ) blockade . in the dog , ne ( 0.1 microgram / kg i.v. ) , pe ( 1 microgram / kg i.v. ) , m ( 20 micrograms / kg i.v. ) and b-ht 920 ( 1 microgram / kg i.v. ) produced similar increases in mean arterial pressure ( ne , 52 + / - 4 mmhg ; pe , 42 + / - 4 mm hg ; m , 43 + / - 7 mm hg ; b-ht 920 , 45 + / - 6 mm hg ) and total peripheral resistance ( ne , 20.8 + / - 5.8 mm hg / l / min ; pe , 23.1 + / - 4.2 mm hg / l / min ; m , 18.2 + / - 2.1 mm hg / l / min ; b-ht 920 , 24.8 + / - 7.1 mm hg / l / min ) . nifedipine ( 0.5 microgram / kg / min i.v. ) caused a similar attenuation of the pressor ( ne , -54 + / - 8 % ; pe , -43 + / - 8 % ; m , -49 + / - 6 % ; b-ht 920 , -56 + / - 8 % ) and vasoconstrictor ( ne , -66 + / - 11 % ; pe , -52 + / - 9 % ; m , -60 + / - 13 % ; b-ht 920 , -57 + / - 10 % ) responses to each of the alpha-adrenoceptor agonists . nifedipine also attenuated pressor responses to alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonists similarly in conscious monkeys . thus , in conscious dogs and monkeys , calcium channel blockade attenuates similarly both alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenoceptor-mediated vasoconstriction . 
down regulation of beta adrenergic receptors in s49 lymphoma cells induced by atypical agonists . the ability of the atypical agonists celiprolol and pindolol to induce sequestration and down regulation of beta adrenergic receptors was investigated in s49 lymphoma cells . sequestration was measured as the loss of binding sites for [ 3h ] cgp-12177 , a hydrophilic radioligand that binds only to surface beta adrenergic receptors at 6 degrees c . down regulation was measured as the loss of binding sites for [ 125i ] iodopindolol , a lipophilic radioligand which at 37 degrees c binds to both surface and sequestered receptors . pindolol and celiprolol do not stimulate adenylate cyclase in membranes from wild-type ( wt ) s49 cells or do they induce the sequestration of beta adrenergic receptors on intact cells . incubation of wt s49 lymphoma cells with isoproterenol for 24 hr resulted in the loss of 75 % of total cellular beta adrenergic receptors ( down regulation ) . exposure of wt s49 cells to pindolol or celiprolol for 24 hr resulted in the loss of approximately half of the total cellular beta adrenergic receptors . in mutant s49 cells [ cyc- ( variant of s49 lymphoma cells which lacks ns activity ) and unc ( variant of s49 lymphoma cells in which ns is present but cannot interact with beta adrenergic receptors ) ] in which interaction of beta adrenergic receptors with the stimulatory guanine nucleotide binding regulatory protein ( ns ) does not occur , a 24 hr incubation with isoproterenol caused the loss of approximately half of the beta adrenergic receptors , whereas pindolol and celiprolol caused no change in the number of receptors . these results suggest that there are two mechanisms of down regulation of beta adrenergic receptors in s49 cells . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
effect of dextromethorphan on guinea pig ileal contractility in vitro : comparison with levomethorphan , loperamide and codeine . dextromethorphan ( dm ) was tested for its effect on the contractility of the guinea pig ileum in vitro . comparisons were made with levomethorphan , levorphanol , codeine and loperamide . dm and codeine inhibited the contractions of the electrically stimulated ileum , with ic50 values of 15 and 8 microm , respectively . the inhibitory effect of dm , in contrast to codeine , was not blocked by the opiate antagonist naloxone . pretreatment ( 8 , 50 and 100 microm ) with dm and its i-isomer levomethorphan reduced in a dose-dependent fashion both phasic and tonic contractions produced by maximally effective concentrations of carbachol and 80 mm kcl . pretreatment ( 8 , 50 and 100 microm ) with codeine , dextrorphan or levorphanol , unlike dm , did not reduce carbachol or kcl-induced contractions . the concentration-response curves to calcium in k+ depolarized ileum were shifted to the right in a parallel manner suggesting competitive antagonism for dm ( pa2 5.3 ) , levomethorphan ( pa2 5.3 ) and loperamide ( pa2 6.6 ) . codeine and levorphanol ( 8 , 50 and 100 microm ) did not antagonize calcium-induced contractions . in two assays of calmodulin-dependent processes dm was inactive ( ic50 greater than 1 mm ) , whereas trifluoperazine and calmidazolium ( standard calmodulin antagonists ) were active in the micromolar range . in summary , these data suggest that dm , through a nonopiate mechanism , antagonizes gut contractility possibly by " stabilizing " neuronal and / or muscle cell membranes . 
modulation of the carrier-mediated transport of the tyr-mif-1 across the blood-brain barrier by essential amino acids . there is evidence that the carrier-mediated system capable of transporting small , n-tyrosinated peptides [ e.g. , tyr-pro-leu-gly-nh2 ( n-tyr-mif-1 ) and enkephalins ] across the blood-brain barrier is modulated by intraventricularly administered leucine . this raises the possibility that the toxicity of amino acids on the central nervous system may be mediated in part by alterations in blood-brain barrier function . we further examined this action of leucine and extended the investigation to include other essential amino acids . high doses of leucine ( 30 nm and 100 nm / mouse intraventricularly ) were found to inhibit significantly transport of iodinated tyr-mif-1 out of the brain . less consistently , a low dose of leucine ( 1.0 nm / mouse ) stimulated transport . kinetic analysis indicated that leucine produced an uncompetitive type of modulation , probably interacting with the carrier-ligand complex . among the other amino acids studied , d-leucine inhibited transport at both 1 nm and 100 nm / mouse , but stimulated transport at 0.1 nm / mouse . the only other significant changes occurred at the high ( 100 nm ) dose of arginine , which stimulated , and methionine , which inhibited , transport . the possibility is proposed that derangements in amino acid metabolism might produce some of their effects on the central nervous system by modulating the blood-brain barrier transport systems for peptides and possibly other substances . 
studies on the mechanism of absorption and distribution of 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin in the rat . 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin ( tcdd ) , the toxic contaminant of agent orange , is absorbed essentially by the lymphatic route and is transported predominantly by chylomicrons after intestinal absorption . plasma disappearance of [ 3h ] tcdd-labeled chylomicrons followed first-order decay kinetics , with two exponential components having half-lives of 0.8 and 30 min , respectively . liver and adipose tissues together accounted for 74 to 81 % of the total radioactivity distributed among various tissues . the i.p. route of administration was as effective as the oral route for uptake in 24 h by the adipose and liver tissues , whereas the s.c. route was less efficient . adipose tissue exhibited a progressive accumulation of labeled tcdd during the first 24 h , whereas the liver showed an exponential disappearance of the newly absorbed tcdd with a half-life of 21.3 h . in contrast , long-term pharmacokinetics of tcdd in the adipose and liver tissues revealed exponential decay patterns with half-lives of 7.6 and 5.3 weeks , respectively . these results show that the adipose tissue and the liver are the major sites of tcdd storage . 
alpha-1 adrenergic receptor binding and contraction of rat caudal artery . alpha-1 adrenergic receptors were examined in rat caudal artery using radioligand binding of [ 125i ] labeled be 2254 ( 125ibe ) and in vitro contraction measurements . 125ibe bound rapidly and reversibly to a single class of high affinity binding sites in membrane preparations of caudal artery . scatchard analysis gave an equilibrium dissociation constant ( kd ) of 110 pm and a density of binding sites of 115 fmol / mg of protein . antagonists inhibited 125ibe binding and phenylephrine-induced contractions competitively , with an order of potency of prazosin greater than arc 239 greater than phentolamine greater than yohimbine . pa2 values for inhibition of phenylephrine-induced contraction correlated well with kd values for inhibition of specific 125ibe binding . a number of other full and partial agonists also caused contraction of caudal arteries with an order of potency of epinephrine greater than norepinephrine greater than phenylephrine greater than methoxamine . the order of potency of agonists and the potencies of antagonists suggests that the contractile responses of rat caudal artery were mediated by alpha-1 adrenergic receptors . the ec50 values of partial agonists in causing contraction correlated well with their kd values for inhibition of specific 125ibe binding . however , the ec50 values for full agonists were 30 to 200 times lower than their kd values . treatment of caudal arteries in vitro with 0.1 microm phenoxybenzamine for 10 min to inactivate alpha adrenergic receptors decreased both the potency of full agonists in causing contraction and the maximal contractile response . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
effects of chronic exposure to ethanol on the prostaglandin e1 receptor-mediated response and binding in a murine neuroblastoma clone ( n1e-115 ) . with the use of cultured murine neuroblastoma cells ( clone n1e-115 ) , the authors studied the effects of chronic ethanol on prostaglandin e , ( pge1 ) -mediated cyclic amp formation , adenylate cyclase activity and [ 3h ] pge1 binding . whereas acute exposure of these cells to ethanol potentiates the pge1 response , exposure of cells , for as little as 1 day , to 100 mm ethanol resulted in a diminished responsiveness to pge1 compared with that in acutely treated cells . this apparent tolerance was well developed by day 4 , and , by day 7 , treated cells had a diminished response to pge1 when assayed in the absence of ethanol . to achieve the same level of pge1-mediated cyclic amp synthesis as acutely exposed cells , chronically exposed cells required higher concentrations of ethanol . with 7 to 10 days of treatment , there was a modest ( 10-13 % ) increase in basal , pge1- and forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in membranous preparations , a 28 to 40 % increase in high-affinity [ 3h ] pge1 binding to membranes with no change in kd or in the ability of 5'-guanylimidodiphosphate to reduce this binding and a 155 % increase in [ 3h ] pge1 binding to intact cells with no change in kd . thus , chronic exposure of n1e-115 cells to ethanol resulted in tolerance to its effects on the pge1 receptor system , and this tolerance was accompanied by apparently paradoxical changes in pge1-stimulated cyclic amp synthesis and [ 3h ] pge1 binding . 
discriminative stimulus properties of caffeine in the rat : noradrenergic mediation . the stimulus properties of caffeine were studied in separate groups of rats trained to discriminate between i.p. injections of saline and either 10 or 30 mg / kg of caffeine in a discrete-trial avoidance paradigm . stimulus control of behavior ( i.e. , reliable completion of at least 18 of 20 trials on the appropriate choice lever after injection of saline or caffeine ) was established in an average of 50 to 52 sessions . novel drugs were tested over a range of doses for generalization to one ( 10 mg / kg ) or both doses of caffeine . the methylxanthine derivatives , theophylline , theobromine , 1 , 7-dimethylxanthine , 3-isobutyl-l-methylxanthine , 8-phenyltheophylline and 8-chlorotheophylline , were generalized to caffeine partially or not at all . of the nonxanthine drugs , apomorphine , clonidine and picrotoxin occasioned responding only on the saline-appropriate choice lever , d-amphetamine and ephedrine generalized partially , and cocaine and methylphenidate generalized with caffeine completely , as did 2- ( 2-chloro-5-trifluoromethylphenylimino ) imidazolidine an alpha-1 adrenergic receptor agonist . the discriminative effects of 10 mg / kg of caffeine were blocked dose-dependently and completely by alpha adrenergic receptor blocking drugs ( phentolamine , prazosin and yohimbine ) and were blocked partially by propranolol and by drugs having behavioral depressant properties ( diazepam , pentobarbital and the adenosine analogs , r- ( - ) -n6- ( 2-phenylisopropyl ) adenosine , cyclohexyladenosine , 2-chloroadenosine ) . the blockade by phentolamine could be surmounted by increasing the dose of caffeine , the partial blockade by diazepam and 2-chloroadenosine could not . alpha adrenergic receptor blocking drugs also antagonized the caffeine-like discriminative effects of methylphenidate and 2- ( 2-chloro-5-trifluoromethylphenylimino ) imidazolidine . the discriminative stimulus effects of caffeine in the rat appear to be mediated in part by alpha adrenergic mechanisms . 
suppression of free fatty acids and triglycerides in normal and hypertriglyceridemic rats by the adenosine receptor agonist phenylisopropyladenosine . activation of adenosine receptors leads to the inhibition of lipolysis in the fat cells of several species including humans . we have examined the effects of the adenosine analog phenylisopropyladenosine ( pia ) on lipolysis in vivo in intact rats . pia suppresses markedly serum-free fatty acid ( ffa ) concentrations when injected s.c. ( - ) -pia is more potent than ( + ) -pia in suppressing ffa concentrations ; also , this effect of ( - ) -pia is blocked by the adenosine receptor antagonist 8- ( p-sulfophenyl ) theophylline . ( - ) -pia also suppressed plasma triglyceride ( tg ) concentrations by approximately 50 % in these rats . utilizing triton wr1339 injections , we found that the decrease in serum tg concentrations was associated with a marked fall in very low density lipoprotein secretion rate . we also examined the effects of ( - ) -pia on ffa and tg concentrations in two models of hypertriglyceridemia in rats : stretozotocin-induced diabetes and sucrose feeding . both groups had elevated ffa and tg concentrations compared with controls . an injection of ( - ) -pia suppressed markedly ffa concentrations and essentially normalized the serum concentration of tg in these rats . we conclude that ( - ) -pia suppresses markedly lipolysis and triglyceride secretion in control and hypertriglyceridemic rats suggesting that the activation of adenosine receptors may have major metabolic effects in vivo . 
cardiac electrophysiologic actions of sch 19927 ( dilevalol ) , the r , r-isomer of labetalol . the cardiac electrophysiologic , hypotensive and antiadrenergic actions of sch 19927 , the r , r-isomer of labetalol , were evaluated in urethane-anesthetized dogs . the cumulative administration of 0.3 , 1.0 and 3.0 mg / kg i.v. decreased mean arterial pressure by 18 to 26 mm hg from a pretreatment value of 106 + / - 6 mm hg and slightly enhanced atrioventricular nodal conduction . after 3.0 mg / kg of sch 19927 , sinoatrial ( sa ) conduction times were decreased , whereas intraventricular conduction was depressed slightly . sch 19927 , 10.0 mg / kg , reduced mean arterial pressure by 39 mm hg and enhanced sa nodal conduction and recovery after overdrive pacing ( decreased sa conduction time and corrected sinus node recovery times ) , whereas intraventricular conduction times and the rate-corrected qtc interval were prolonged . sinus heart rate , atrial , ventricular and atrioventricular nodal functional and effective refractory periods were unaltered by sch 19927 , 0.3 to 10.0 mg / kg . the administration of sch 19927 produced significant beta adrenergic receptor blockade , as determined by inhibition of the positive chronotropic and peripheral vasodilatory response to isoproterenol , but did not alter the alpha-1 adrenergic receptor-mediated vasopressor response to phenylephrine . the results indicate that sch 19927 , in beta adrenergic receptor blocking and hypotensive dosages , does not depress sa nodal or atrioventricular nodal function , thus suggesting an electrophysiologic spectrum of activity different from that of other beta adrenergic receptor antagonists . 
differential effect of plasma protein binding of bupivacaine on its in vivo transfer into the brain and salivary gland of rats . the effect of plasma protein binding of bupivacaine on its transfer into brain and salivary gland was studied using bovine serum albumin , human alpha 1-acid glycoprotein ( aag ) and human serum . the in vivo brain extraction and salivary gland extraction of [ 3h ] bupivacaine relative to [ 14c ] butanol were determined with an intracarotid injection technique used on rats . the brain extraction varied inversely with the bovine serum albumin ( 0-7.5 % ) and aag ( 0-3.0 mg / ml ) concentrations . the salivary extraction only slightly varied inversely with the aag concentration , whereas no significant effects of bovine albumin binding on salivary gland uptake were observed . the in vivo percentage of exchangeable drug in brain or salivary gland capillaries was severalfold greater than the in vitro percentage of unbound drug . the percent values of free drug , brain exchangeable drug and salivary exchangeable drug were 12 + / - 1 , 81 + / - 7 and 93 + / - 18 % for umbilical cord serum , 8.6 + / - 1.1 , 73 + / - 6 and 103 + / - 3 % for normal human serum , 5.9 + / - 0.5 , 60 + / - 4 and 89 + / - 3 % for serum of rheumatoid arthritis patients and 5.0 + / - 0.2 , 45 + / - 2 and 83 + / - 3 % for serum of metastatic cancer patients . these data indicate that bupivacaine is not transported through the brain capillary wall , i.e. , the blood-brain barrier , from the bovine albumin-bound pool , but bupivacaine is partially available for transfer from the circulating aag-bound pool . however , both bovine albumin-bound and aag-bound bupivacaine are readily available for transport through salivary gland capillaries . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
studies on the desensitization of the central cardiovascular responses of histamine . intraventricular administration of histamine ( ha ) in conscious freely moving rats produces a dose-dependent pressor response and bradycardia . these responses are diminished profoundly when a second injection of ha is given within a short time after the first injection . in this study , the specific ha h1 agonist , pyridylethylamine , and the specific h2 agonist , impromidine , were used to examine the nature of this tachyphylaxis . blood pressure and heart rate were measured directly from indwelling carotid catheters , and drugs were administered in three consecutive intraventricular injections to conscious freely moving rats at 30-min intervals . ha , the h2 agonist , impromidine and the combined injection of pyridylethylamine and impromidine induced tachyphylaxis of the pressor response . the h1 agonist , pyridylethylamine and the ha-n-methyltransferase inhibitor , skf-91488 ( homodimaprit ) did not show tachyphylaxis . heart rate responses were more complex and only ha demonstrated tachyphylaxis of the bradycardia . it is concluded that the tachyphylaxis of the pressor response caused by repeated injections of ha results from the desensitization of central ha h2 receptors . 
human vascular vasopressin receptors : analysis with selective vasopressin receptor antagonists . the vascular activity of arginine vasopressin ( avp ) and selective avp receptor antagonists was investigated in isolated arterial ring segments from human superior mesenteric arteries . avp elicited a potent and concentration-dependent contraction in human mesenteric arterial rings with an ec50 value of 2.01 x 10 ( -9 ) m . the presence or absence of the vascular endothelium did not affect significantly avp-induced contraction . avp induced slight , although significant , tachyphylaxis in human mesenteric arteries . the selective vascular ( v1 ) receptor antagonist [ d ( ch2 ) 5 1tyr ( me ) 2 ] avp ( sk & f 100273 ) shifted the concentration-response curves for avp-induced vascular contraction to the right in a parallel manner ( kb = 2.23 x 10 ( -9 ) m ) . a mixed v1 / v2 receptor antagonist , [ d ( ch2 ) 5 1d-tyr ( et ) 2val4desgly9 ] avp ( sk & f 101926 ) , was also a potent antagonist of avp-mediated vascular contraction ; however , inhibition was marked by a nonparallel shift of the concentration-response curves with depression of maximum contraction . furthermore , a relatively renal ( v2 ) selective receptor antagonist [ d ( ch2 ) 5 1d-ile2val4 ] avp ( sk & f 101485 ) was approximately 100-fold less potent at inhibiting avp-induced vascular contraction ( kb = 1.37 x 10 ( -7 ) m ) . these studies illustrate for the first time the in vitro effects of selective vasopressin receptor antagonists in isolated human blood vessels . studies of other blood vessels and the design of therapeutically useful antagonists should proceed with the hypothesis that the vasopressin receptors mediating vascular contraction in human mesenteric arteries are of the v1 subtype . 
direct analysis of the release of methionine-enkephalin from guinea pig myenteric plexus : modulation by endogenous opioids and exogenous morphine . the in vitro release of methionine-enkephalin ( met-enkephalin ) from two longitudinal muscle myenteric plexus strips from guinea pig ileum has been obtained during continuous superfusion and quantitated directly using a radioimmunoassay specific for this opioid peptide . electrical stimulation ( 5-80 hz ) produced a significant increase in the rate of release of met-enkephalin the magnitude of which was not dependent on the frequency of stimulation . analysis of the release of met-enkephalin per pulse as a function of the frequency of stimulation indicated that the release of this opioid peptide from the myenteric plexus is inversely proportional to the frequency of stimulation . electrically evoked release ( 40 hz ) of met-enkephalin was reduced by greater than 80 % by substituting cocl2 for cacl2 or by pretreatment with tetrodotoxin ( 1 microgram / ml for 15 min ) . evoked release was also reduced substantially by pretreatment with morphine ( 1 microm , 1.5 min ) . alternatively , pretreatment of naive longitudinal muscle myenteric plexus strips with the opiate antagonist ( - ) -naloxone caused a significant increase in the rate of met-enkephalin release in the absence of electrical stimulation . in contrast , ( + ) -naloxone was devoid of any activity . these data , in combination with indirect pharmacological experiments , strongly indicate that met-enkephalin functions as a neurotransmitter in the enteric nervous system . moreover , the activity of neurons that transmit via met-enkephalin appears to be under opioid regulation . 
effects of papaverine and theophylline on renal adenosine transport . we have studied the effects of papaverine and theophylline on the transport of adenosine by the isolated perfused rat kidney and by isolated renal luminal ( l ) and antiluminal ( al ) membrane vesicles . in filtering isolated kidneys perfused with 0.1 mm adenosine , 1 mm papaverine inhibited adenosine removal from the perfusate by 40 % and elevated the fractional excretion of adenosine from 0.4 + / - 0.1 to 0.7 + / - 0.0 . theophylline ( 10 mm ) inhibited 0.1 mm adenosine removal in the filtering kidney by 18 % and decreased the fractional excretion of adenosine to 0.2 + / - 0.1 . in nonfiltering isolated kidneys perfused with 0.1 mm adenosine , 1 mm papaverine or 10 mm theophylline inhibited the rate of adenosine removal from the perfusate by 41 or 19 % , respectively . papaverine ( 50 or 100 microm ) was a potent cis inhibitor of the initial ( 15 sec ) rate of 1 microm [ 3h ] adenosine influx into l and al membrane vesicles . the influx of 1 microm [ 3h ] adenosine was inhibited partially by 50 microm and inhibited completely by 100 microm papaverine . papaverine at 10 microm trans stimulated the efflux of 50 microm [ 3h ] adenosine preloaded into al vesicles . however , theophylline ( up to 100 microm ) had no effect on the influx of 1 microm [ 3h ] adenosine into l and al vesicles . the data suggest that papaverine is a potent , direct inhibitor of adenosine transport across both l and al membranes whereas it is likely that theophylline increases net adenosine influx across the l membrane and decreases adenosine influx across the al membrane by indirect metabolic effects . 
interaction between human serum albumin and alpha 1-acid glycoprotein in the binding of lidocaine to purified protein fractions and sera . the authors have determined the binding parameters for [ 14c ] lidocaine to several preparations of purified human serum alpha 1-acid glycoprotein ( aag ) and human serum albumin ( hsa ) . the authors find that the average kd for the three different purified aag preparations was 15.2 + / - 0.5 microm , with an average of 0.567 + / - 0.009 binding sites ( n ) per aag molecule , when the concentration of aag was determined by a standard colorimetric protein assay . the number of binding sites per aag increased to 0.99 + / - 0.06 when the concentration of aag was determined immunologically . on the other hand , delipidized aag had a kd of 28.0 microm , with an n of 1.72 based on the immunological assay . various preparations of hsa had kd / n values ranging from 4.3 to 17.3 mm . the number of binding sites per hsa molecule could not be determined because the maximum concentration of lidocaine that can be used is 10 mm , which is only approximately equal to the kd . the kd to hsa was so low and the capacity so high that , at therapeutic concentrations , the binding was in the linear range . solutions containing both purified aag and hsa had kd values of 30.2 + / - 1.8 microm , with 2.01 + / - 0.04 binding sites per aag molecule . with hsa and delipidized aag , the kd was 60 microm , with 3.16 sites per delipidized aag molecule . this increase in the binding parameters appeared to be due to a direct interaction between the two proteins . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
sympathetic purinergic vasoconstriction and thermosensitivity in a canine cutaneous vein . in canine cutaneous veins , cooling augments the contractile responses evoked by sympathetic nerve stimulation despite a cooling-induced reduction in the release of norepinephrine . with exogenous norepinephrine , the increased responsiveness observed during cooling results from enhanced sensitivity of the postjunctional alpha-2 adrenoceptors . the present experiments were performed to analyze the mechanism of the increased neurogenic response during cooling . rings of canine saphenous vein were suspended for isometric tension recording in organ chambers filled with modified krebs-ringer bicarbonate solution , gassed with 95 % o2-5 % co2 . cooling ( from 37-24 degrees c ) increased the contractile response evoked by nerve stimulation under control conditions , after alpha-1 adrenergic blockade with prazosin , alpha-2 adrenergic blockade with rauwolscine or the combination of both antagonists . the influence of cooling to enhance the neurogenic response was inhibited only by combined alpha adrenergic and purinergic-receptor blockade ( alpha , beta-methylene atp ) . electrical stimulation failed to evoke a contractile response ( either at 37 or 24 degrees c ) in the presence of tetrodotoxin or after acute sympathetic denervation with 6-hydroxydopamine . alpha , beta-methylene atp abolished the contractile response evoked by atp but did not affect the concentration-effect curves to alpha-1 ( phenylephrine ) or alpha-2 ( uk 14 , 304 ) adrenergic stimulation . cooling augmented the contractile responses evoked by atp . the results suggest that atp released from sympathetic neurons in the vessel wall contributes to the cooling-induced augmentation of contractile responses to sympathetic nerve stimulation in canine cutaneous veins . this may explain the increased prominence of purinergic mechanisms in cutaneous blood vessels . 
verapamil , diltiazem and nifedipine block the depolarization-induced potentiation of norepinephrine contractions in rabbit aorta and porcine coronary arteries . the effectiveness of verapamil , diltiazem and nifedipine in reducing potassium-induced enhancement of vascular responses to norepinephrine was studied in rabbit aorta and porcine coronary arteries . at multiple levels of external potassium concentration ( 4-28 mm ) , norepinephrine concentration-response curves were performed . whereas the tissue was only slightly depolarized ( about 5 mv ) by an increase in external potassium to 20 mm , the norepinephrine response was markedly potentiated . for example , the ec50 of norepinephrine in aortic rings was reduced from 4.7 x 10 ( -8 ) m in 4 mm potassium to 4.7 x 10 ( -9 ) m in 20 mm potassium . calcium channel blockers reduced potassium- and calcium-induced contractions , the ic50 being 6 x 10 ( -8 ) m for verapamil , 5 x 10 ( -7 ) m for diltiazem and 3 x 10 ( -9 ) m for nifedipine . these concentrations only minimally reduced norepinephrine contraction in 4 mm potassium but virtually abolished the depolarization-induced potentiation of the norepinephrine contraction . even short exposures to levels of potassium , which resulted in little or no contraction by themselves , markedly potentiated the norepinephrine contraction . therefore , the abolition of this potentiation by calcium channel blockers cannot be explained by a reduction of potassium-induced contraction . similar observations were made in porcine coronary arteries . thus , the potency of calcium channel blockers against norepinephrine-induced contractions is markedly increased in depolarized vascular smooth muscle . calcium channel blockers may be especially effective in preventing enhanced vascular contractions resulting from physiological concentrations of catecholamines in partially depolarized vascular smooth muscle . 
effects of mu-opioid receptor stimulation in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus on basal and stress-induced catecholamine secretion and cardiovascular responses . previous work from this laboratory has demonstrated that opioid peptides , acting at mu-receptors in the brain , stimulate central sympathetic outflow thereby increasing plasma catecholamine concentrations in unstressed rats . brain sites involved in opioid-mediated catecholamine secretion have not been characterized fully . additionally , brain opioid effects on sympathoadrenal catecholamine secretion during stress have not been defined . because the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus ( pvn ) plays a central role in autonomic and cardiovascular regulation , we administered the mu-selective enkephalin analog , d-ala2-nme-phe4-gly ( ol ) 5enkephalin ( dago ) , directly into pvn in conscious , unstressed rats and determined the changes in plasma catecholamine concentrations , blood pressure and heart rate . then , during the peak response , rats were subjected to restraint stress and the same parameters were again measured . under basal conditions , picomolar doses of dago injected into pvn increased plasma concentrations of catecholamines , especially epinephrine , and raised blood pressure . these effects were dose-related ( 0.01-0.3 nmol ) and antagonized by naloxone given either systemically or directly into pvn . tachycardia was also observed except at the highest dose of dago ( 0.3 nmol ) . thus , mu-receptor stimulation in pvn increases central sympathetic outflow in nonstressful situations , producing increased adreno-medullary catecholamine secretion , blood pressure and heart rate . during restraint stress , pvn microinjections of dago blunted stress-induced tachycardia , apparently by a vagal mechanism as this effect was blocked by atropine methyl nitrate . pvn dago had no significant effect on the plasma catecholamine responses to restraint stress . in contrast , naloxone injected into pvn augmented stress-induced epinephrine secretion . thus , pvn mu-receptors may regulate heart rate during stress , and an endogenous opioid released during restraint stress may modulate adrenomedullary responses to stress . 
inhibition of the platelet activating factor ( paf ) -induced in vivo responses in rats by trans-2 , 5- ( 3 , 4 , 5-trimethoxyphenyl ) tetrahydrofuran ( l-652 , 731 ) , a paf receptor antagonist . trans-2 , 5-bis- ( 3 , 4 , 5-trimethoxyphenyl ) tetrahydrofuran ( l652 , 731 ) , a potent and specific receptor antagonist of platelet activating factor ( paf ) ( hwang et al . , j . biol . chem . 260 : 15639-15645 , 1985 ) , potently inhibits several paf-induced in vivo responses in rats . intravenously and p.o. administered l-652 , 731 gave a dose-response inhibition of paf-induced lysosomal hydrolase secretion and extravasation with ed50 values of 1 and 3 mg / kg , respectively . inhibitions of 87 % were achieved with 50 mg / kg p.o. after a single 5-mg / kg p.o. dose , l-652 , 731 achieved 50 to 60 % inhibition of paf-induced lysosomal hydrolase secretion and extravasation by 0.5 to 1.5 hr with near maximum inhibition lasting through 6 hr . a 20-mg / kg p.o. dose of l-652 , 731 inhibited paf-induced leukopenia and neutropenia by 96 and 73 % , respectively . the most substantial inhibitions of the extravasation and lysosomal hydrolase secretion induced by paf or soluble immune complexes were achieved by p.o. l-652 , 731 ( 20 mg / kg ) with moderate inhibition by dexamethasone and little or no inhibition by antagonists / inhibitors of histamine h1 or h2 or serotonin receptors or cyclooxygenase . intravenous infusion of a 0.4 mg of l-652 , 731 bolus inhibited the hypotensive responses from subsequent paf infusions by a maximum of 72 % and with a half-life duration of action of 2.5 hr . intravenous infusion of l-652 , 731 results in an immediate 87 % reversal of the extreme hypotension induced by a previous endotoxin injection . thus , with its good p.o. activity , long duration of action and specificity in inhibiting paf-induced responses in vivo , l-652 , 731 is a very useful tool in determining the role of paf in mediating different pathophysiological processes . 
prazosin selectively antagonizes norepinephrine contractions at low-affinity , non-alpha adrenoceptor sites ( extraceptors ) in arterial muscle . the characteristics of a low-affinity site activated by norepinephrine ( ne ) , which is demonstrable in arterial smooth muscle pretreated with phenoxybenzamine ( pbz ) to alkylate most alpha adrenoceptors were studied . treatment with pbz resulted in biphasic dose-response curves to ne . the initial phase associated with concentrations of ne up to 10 ( -5 ) m was due to its action in tissues where alpha adrenoceptors have been reduced to a number that would not support a maximum contraction . the second phase occurred with higher doses of ne . we postulate that this latter pbz-resistant phase or contraction , which can represent more than 60 % of the control maximal response , occurs at low-affinity sites for ne " extraceptors " distinct from alpha adrenoceptors in arterial smooth muscle . these residual responses to ne after pbz treatment were inhibited selectively by prazosin and protected by prazosin from further inhibition by additional doses of pbz . effects due to prazosin at low-affinity sites were observed only with doses in excess of those required to competitively inhibit responses through alpha adrenoceptors in smooth muscle . the response to ne occurring through pbz-resistant adrenoceptors was not dependent on the presence of the endothelium . this low-affinity site for ne was also evident after alkylation of alpha adrenoceptors with other irreversibly acting antagonists ( e.g. , benextramine and dibenamine ) . these observations are discussed in relation to the suggestion for a new adrenoceptor , the gamma-adrenoceptor . differences and similarities of the extraceptor with this proposed adrenoceptor are discussed . both sites have a high threshold to ne , and both may be influenced by prazosin . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
genetic analysis of nicotine-induced seizures and hippocampal nicotinic receptors in the mouse . a classical f2 and backcross genetic design was used to examine the relationship between sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures and hippocampal nicotinic receptors . nicotine was administered by i.v. infusion through cannulas implanted in the right jugular veins of mice from the c3h and dba mouse strains and their derived f1 , f2 and backcross ( f1 x c3h and f1 x dba ) generations . nicotine-induced seizure sensitivity was assessed by infusing nicotine at a 2.0 mg / kg / min concentration until the onset of a clonic seizure . after seizure testing , mice were sacrificed and the binding of alpha-bungarotoxin ( btx ) was determined in three brain regions : cortex , midbrain and hippocampus . the pattern of results for the six generations for seizure sensitivity was similar to that observed for hippocampal btx binding . genetic analyses indicate that receptor concentrations in the hippocampus and seizure sensitivity are both influenced by a relatively simple genetic system which involves one or more genes acting in an additive fashion . in addition , the genetic correlation which is indicative of the extent to which two characters are influenced by the same genes , supports the relationship between nicotine-induced seizure sensitivity and hippocampal btx binding . the results suggest that those animals which are sensitive to nicotine-induced seizures have a greater concentration of nicotinic receptors as determined by the binding of btx than animals which are less sensitive to the convulsant effects of nicotine . 
effect of canrenone on the disturbances of cation handling induced by ouabain in macrophages and vascular smooth muscle cells . ouabain induced rapid and profound modifications of na+ and k+ contents in mouse macrophages and cultured vascular smooth muscle cells . in mouse macrophages , we found a one-to-one net na+ gain and k+ depletion , with a maximal initial rate of 30 to 35 mmol ( l x cells x hr ) -1 and with an ic50 of about 100 microm . the one-to-one exchange results from at least two additive effects : inhibition of the na+ , k+-pump and stimulation of a furosemide-sensitive , outward na+ , k+-cotransport by the increase in internal na+ content . the latter effect helps the cell to maintain a normal cell volume in spite of the large changes in internal cation content . in cultured vascular smooth muscle cells from rat aorta , ouabain provoked net na+ gain and stimulated a quinidine-sensitive , k+-efflux . this likely reflects the opening of ca+-dependent , k+-channels in response to an increase in cytosolic-free ca+ content . canrenone , an antihypertensive drug , has been shown to behave like a partial agonist at the digitalisreceptor site of the na+ , k+-pump . we observed here in mouse macrophages and cultured vascular smooth muscle cells that : canrenone alone ( or at low ouabain concentrations ) induces slight na+ gain and k+ depletion ; canrenone partially counterbalances the very rapid cell na+ gain ( and k+ depletion ) provoked by high ouabain concentrations , and canrenone reverses the secondary effects of ouabain on the na+ , k+-cotransport system and ca+-dependent , k+-channels . it appears therefore that canrenone may partially reverse the disturbances of cation handling induced by high concentrations of ouabain in macrophages and vascular smooth muscle cells . 
mechanisms behind the inhibitory effect of ethanol on the conjugation of morphine in rat hepatocytes . liver microsomes were isolated by calcium aggregation , and isolated hepatocytes from male wistar rats were prepared according to a two-step ca++-free collagenase perfusion method . with the hepatocytes maximal inhibition of glucuronidation ( about 40 % ) was reached at 10 mm ethanol after incubation at 37 degrees c for 60 min . udp-glucuronic acid concentration and energy charge in the hepatocytes also did decrease maximally ( about 90 and 50 % , respectively ) and the amount of udp-glucose was tripled in the presence of 10 mm and higher concentrations of ethanol . the alcohol dehydrogenase inhibitor 4-methylpyrazole abolished ethanol-induced inhibition of morphine glucuronidation in the hepatocytes . acetaldehyde ( 250-50 microm ) and the ph decrease induced by ethanol did not reduce morphine-3-glucuronide formation by the cells . cellular uptake of morphine and excretion of morphine metabolites were similar in the absence and presence of ethanol . ethanol ( 60 mm ) did not affect the glucuronidation of morphine ( 1.7 mm added ) during a 30-min incubation at 37 degrees c with the microsomes ( udp-glucuronic acid , 5 mm ) . when the concentration of udp-glucuronic acid in the microsomes was lowered from 1 to 0.1 mm , the decrease in morphine-3-glucuronide formation was similar to that observed in cells . the data indicate that the inhibition by ethanol of morphine glucuronidation was due to decreased levels of udp-glucuronic acid . the mechanism is likely to be inhibition of udp-glucose dehydrogenase activity by ethanol from increased intracellular nadh / nad ratio accompanying ethanol oxidation . 
elimination of chronically consumed caffeine in the pregnant monkey ( macaca fascicularis ) . characterization of alterations in caffeine elimination during pregnancy is essential in assessing the potential exposure of the fetus to caffeine and its metabolites . female monkeys ( macaca fascicularis ) were exposed to caffeine in their drinking water 7 days / week before , during and after pregnancy . the low exposure ( 0.15 mg / ml ) corresponded to a level sometimes consumed by pregnant women ( 10-15 mg / kg / day ) whereas the high exposure ( 0.35 mg / ml ) was above average human consumption ( 25-30 mg / kg / day ) . blood samples and 24-hr urine samples were collected every 2 weeks throughout dosing . caffeine and metabolite concentrations in serum and urine were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography . before pregnancy , geometric mean serum caffeine concentrations were approximately 1.6 and 4.9 micrograms / ml and serum theophylline concentrations were 6.6 and 13.3 micrograms / ml for the low and high dose groups , respectively . during pregnancy , serum caffeine concentrations increased by approximately 100 % for both dose groups and , after parturition , declined to prepregnancy concentrations . serum theophylline concentrations were usually greater than serum caffeine concentrations and did not change during pregnancy . the amount of caffeine and theophylline excreted in the urine over 24 hr increased during pregnancy and returned to prepregnancy levels after parturition . the results of this study indicate that pregnancy decreased caffeine elimination , resulting in a significant increase in serum caffeine levels . the changes in caffeine elimination may be related to alterations in serum estrogen and progesterone levels . 
alpha-bromoisovalerylurea as model substrate for studies on pharmacokinetics of glutathione conjugation in the rat . i . ( bio- ) synthesis , analysis and identification of diastereomeric glutathione conjugates and mercapturates . in order to find a model substrate for kinetic characterization of glutathione conjugation in vivo alpha-bromoisovalerylurea ( biu ) was studied . after administration of racemic [ 14c ] urea biu to rats , two radioactive metabolites were found in bile by high-performance liquid chromatography . the identity of these metabolites was established by various methods . based on the hydrolytic activity of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase ( presence of the gamma-glutamyl moiety ) , high resolution nuclear magnetic resonance ( isovaleryl and glutathionyl moieties ) and fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry ( molecular weight and fragmentation pattern ) , they were identified as glutathione conjugates of biu . because both conjugates in bile had these characteristics in common they must be diastereomers . incubation of biu with glutathione in the presence of rat liver cytosol resulted in formation of the same diastereomeric glutathione conjugates . chemical synthesis of the diastereomers confirmed their identity . the major urinary excretion products of [ 14c ] urea biu in the rat were identified as diastereomeric mercapturates . a convenient chromatographic separation of the diastereomeric glutathione conjugates and the mercapturic acids is described . electrochemical detection was used to determine the presence of the thioethers in both urine and bile . pharmacokinetic results on biu conjugation are described in the accompanying paper . 
alpha-bromoisovalerylurea as model substrate for studies on pharmacokinetics of glutathione conjugation in the rat . ii . pharmacokinetics and stereoselectivity of metabolism and excretion in vivo and in the perfused liver . the hypnotic drug alpha-bromoisovalerylurea ( biu ) has been studied in the rat with respect to its potential use as model substrate to investigate the pharmacokinetics of glutathione conjugation in vivo . the major metabolites of racemic biu are the diastereomeric glutathione conjugates ( bile ) and mercapturates ( urine ) . biu was metabolized mainly by glutathione conjugation : after i.v. administration of [ 14c ] biu to freely moving rats , 89 % of the dose was recovered in urine within 24 hr , mostly as mercapturates . the rate-limiting step in the clearance of biu from blood most likely is glutathione conjugation as it was shown that rate-limitation is not due to flow-limited clearance in the liver ( the initial extraction ratio of biu in the perfused liver preparation was low : hepatic extraction ratio = 0.23 ) , protein binding ( 60 % was unbound in plasma ) or enzyme saturation ( linear pharmacokinetics in the dose range studied : 22-270 mumol / kg ) . water solubility of biu was sufficient to allow its i.v. administration , whereas the absence of toxic effects enables animal as well as human studies . thus , biu is a promising model substrate for studies of glutathione conjugation in vivo . in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats with a bile duct catheter , equal amounts of metabolites were excreted in bile ( almost exclusively as the two diastereomeric biu glutathione conjugates ) and urine ( mostly as the two diastereomeric mercapturates ) . based on similar experiments with bile duct-ligated rats , it was concluded that the appearance of the mercapturates in urine could also occur without biliary excretion and subsequent gut metabolism of the biu glutathione conjugates . the ability of the liver to metabolize biu was studied in a hemoglobin-free , recirculating liver perfusion system . of the recovered radioactivity 40 % was excreted in bile within 2 hr , almost exclusively in the form of the two biu glutathione conjugates . also , glutathione conjugates were found in the perfusate ( 16 % of the radioactivity present in the perfusate after 2 hr ) . a distinct stereoselectivity was observed in the metabolite excretion rates . the excretion half-lives of the two diastereomeric glutathione conjugates in bile differed 2- to 3-fold , both in anesthetized rats and in the perfused liver preparation . a similar difference in excretion half-lives was found for the urinary excretion of the diastereomeric mercapturates . thus , biu can be used to investigate in vivo the stereoselectivity of glutathione conjugation . 
secretin infusion in acute ischemic left ventricular failure : effects on myocardial performance and metabolism in a closed-chest dog model . acute ischemic left ventricular ( lv ) failure in eight closed-chest , anesthetized dogs was induced by embolization of the left coronary artery with 50 micron polystyrene microspheres until lv end-diastolic pressure reached 25.2 + / - 1.4 mm hg . cardiac output was reduced by 33 % , lvdp / dt by 32 % and mean arterial pressure fell substantially . plasma secretin increased significantly during the induction of failure . infusion of secretin , 16 clinical units x kg-1 x hr-1 caused a persistent increment in lv performance , due to arteriolar dilation as well as a modest inotropic effect . heart rate was elevated slightly and lv end-diastolic pressure unchanged . mean arterial pressure was unchanged initially , but decreased slightly at the end of the infusion period . myocardial oxygen consumption was unaltered . it is concluded that secretin may be well suited for the treatment of acute lv failure . 
prednisolone concentration-effect relations in humans and the influence of plasma hydrocortisone . recently we applied pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic modeling to study the relation between the time course of prednisolone concentration and lymphocytopenic effects . a threshold concentration parameter ( cth ) was incorporated in the pharmacodynamic model . in the present study the influence of the initial endogenous hydrocortisone ( hc ) level ( hct = o ) was investigated , particularly on cth estimates . five healthy subjects received a single p.o. dose of 30 mg of prednisolone on two separate occasions . one dose was given at 8 : 00 a.m. ( data set a ) , the other at 8 : 00 p.m. ( data set b ) . a second group of five subjects received 30 mg of prednisolone at 8 : 00 a.m. on 3 consecutive days , measurements being made after the third dose ( data set c ) . results from a previous experiment in five subjects who received 30 mg of prednisolone at 8 : 00 a.m. were reanalyzed in the present study ( data set d ) . blood samples were taken over a period of 12 hr after dosing for determination of corticosteroid levels and okt4 positive lymphocyte counts . for data sets b and c , hct = o tended to be lower and okt4 counts at t = o tended to be higher in comparison with data sets a and d . pharmacokinetic parameters of prednisolone were similar in the four experiments . the time course of the okt4 counts after dosing could be fitted irrespective of the initial counts and hct = o . the results support the postulate that cth represents prednisolone replacing lost hc and the conclusion that hc and prednisolone are about equipotent with respect to the lymphocytopenic effect . on the basis of our results and literature data , suggestions are made for optimal immunosuppression with prednisolone . 
transport of cimetidine by the rat choroid plexus in vitro . to characterize the transport system of cimetidine , an organic cation , in the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier , the accumulation of cimetidine by the isolated rat choroid plexus was examined . accumulation of cimetidine was against a concentration gradient via a saturable process ( km = 53 microm , vmax = 12 nmol / ml / min ) that was inhibited by sulfhydryl reagents ( p-hydroxymercuribenzoate ) , metabolic inhibitors ( kcn and 2 , 4-dinitrophenol ) and hypothermia ( q10 = 4.5 ) , but did not require inward na+ gradient . organic cations such as 1n-methylnicotinamide , tetraethylammonium , choline , histamine and creatinine did not affect the accumulation of cimetidine at the concentration of 1 mm . cimetidine did not affect the accumulation of tetraethylammonium . more lipophilic cations such as quinidine and quinine inhibited not only the accumulation of cimetidine but also that of an organic anion , benzylpenicillin , although the inhibitory mechanisms are not known . one millimolar of organic anions , such as 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid , p-aminohippuric acid , homovanillic acid , salicylic acid and benzylpenicillin , inhibited the accumulation of cimetidine . furthermore , the accumulation of organic anions ( benzylpenicillin and salicylic acid ) showed saturability and was inhibited by cimetidine . cimetidine and the organic anions thus showed a mutual inhibition . oligopeptides also inhibited the accumulation of cimetidine . these findings suggested that cimetidine transport in the choroid plexus is via carrier-mediated active transport process , but does not require inward na+ gradient . this transport is inhibited by several compounds with different properties like oligopeptides , lipophilic cations and organic anions , although the inhibitory mechanism is not known . 
delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol differentially affects sensory-evoked potentials in the rat dentate gyrus . the effects of low doses of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol ( thc ) on auditory-evoked potentials recorded from the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus of the rat hippocampus were assessed during performance of an auditory two-tone discrimination task . conditioned behavior was disrupted up to 2 hr after i.p. injections of delta 9-thc at 1.0 to 2.0 mg / kg : responses to the rewarded stimulus decreased significantly and latency to respond increased significantly . concurrent recordings indicated that these same doses of thc did not grossly distort the outer molecular layer averaged evoked potential waveform , but did produce opposing alterations in the amplitudes of the previously studied averaged evoked potential components n1 and n2 . the amplitude of the n1 component was decreased significantly 0 to 2 hr after thc injection , whereas the amplitude of the n2 component increased significantly . thc injection at 0.5 mg / kg had no significant effects on performance or on n1 or n2 amplitudes . recovery from the effects of 1.0 to 2.0 mg / kg of delta 9-thc was essentially complete 2 to 4 hr after injection for both measures of performance and for both n1 and n2 amplitudes . the results demonstrate that low doses of delta 9-thc distort behaviorally relevant sensory information converging on the dentate gyrus and support the hypothesis that the psychoactive effects of marijuana may be mediated by action within the hippocampus . 
effects of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol on sensory-evoked discharges of granule cells in the dentate gyrus of behaving rats . extracellular action potentials were recorded from identified cells in the dentate gyrus of the awake freely moving rat during performance of a two-tone discrimination task . the effects of low doses of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol ( delta 9-thc ) were assessed on the firing patterns of granule cells to the tone stimuli . intraperitoneal injections of delta 9-thc at 1.0 and 2.0 mg / kg , but not 0.5 mg / kg , produced a significant suppression of granule cell activity lasting up to 4 hr . this suppression was present in both the spontaneous ( pretone ) activity and tone-evoked responses of granule cells . the tone responses of cells recorded from the inferior colliculus were unaffected by thc injection at 1.0 and 2.0 mg / kg , implicating further the hippocampus as a site of specific action of delta 9-thc . in the preceding paper it was demonstrated that such doses produced both impairment of discrimination behavior and modifications of sensory-evoked potentials recorded from the dentate gyrus . however , the influence of delta 9-thc on cell firing in the dentate gyrus was more severe both in magnitude and duration of suppression than were the effects on behavior and on sensory-evoked potentials . 
increased gentamicin nephrotoxicity in normal and diseased dogs administered identical serum drug concentration profiles : increased sensitivity in subclinical renal dysfunction . attempts to avoid gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity in the presence of renal dysfunction assume that the nephrotoxicity threshold is unchanged from that of the normal patient . the purpose of the present study was to compare the response of the subclinically diseased kidney to the normal kidney when exposed to identical serum concentrations of gentamicin . this study used exponentially declining infusions based on preinfusion pharmacokinetics to achieve identical serum gentamicin concentration profiles in intact ( intact-gentamicin ) and subtotally nephrectomized ( nephrectomized-gentamicin ) beagle dogs . after 10 daily 12-hr infusions , relative nephrotoxicity was compared using serum chemistries and histopathologic analysis in intact- and nephrectomized-control ( untreated ) dogs . for intact-gentamicin and nephrectomized-gentamicin dogs , respectively , infusion steady-state serum concentrations were 5.3 + / - 0.3 vs . 5.5 + / - 0.5 ( microgram / ml ) and elimination rates were 0.19 + / - 0.02 vs . 0.20 + / - 0.01 ( hr-1 ) ( mean + / - s.e.m. ) . postinfusion histopath scoring of renal lesions ( 0-30 , with 30 being most severe ) were 11 + / - 5 ( nephrectomized-gentamicin ) , 4 + / - 2 ( nephrectomized-control ) , 2 + / - 2 ( intact-gentamicin ) and 0 + / - 0 ( intact-control ) . gentamicin-induced renal dysfunction in nephrectomized dogs was characterized further by administering nonindividualized multiple dosage regimens . toxicity in the subclinical disease state was marked by oliguria and acute renal failure in contrast to the mild polyuria seen in intact animals . these findings support increased sensitivity to gentamicin nephrotoxicity in dogs with mild renal dysfunction secondary to subtotal surgical nephrectomy . 
regional modulation of [ 3h ] forskolin binding in the rat brain by guanylyl-5'-imidodiphosphate and sodium fluoride : comparison with the distribution of guanine nucleotide binding sites . hormone-sensitive adenylate cyclase is believed to exist as a complex consisting of a catalytic subunit , guanine nucleotide binding regulatory unit and a hormone or neurotransmitter receptor . the diterpene compound , forskolin , is a potent stimulator of adenylate cyclase activity presumably interacting with a site directly on the catalytic subunit . guanine nucleotides and sodium fluoride stimulate adenylate cyclase through a stimulatory guanine nucleotide binding regulatory subunit . in order to examine the role of the forskolin binding site in the rat brain , the distribution of [ 3h ] forskolin binding sites has been compared with those of a radiolabeled guanine nucleotide analog . [ 3h ] forskolin densely labeled a few discrete brain regions including the caudate-putamen , nucleus accumbens , olfactory tubercle , globus pallidus and substantia nigra . specific [ 3h ] guanylyl-5'-imidodiphosphate ( [ 3h ] gpp ( nh ) p ) binding sites were found in high densities in not only these areas but also in the cerebral cortex , thalamus , hypothalamus and midbrain regions . in the hippocampal formation , guanine nucleotide binding sites were seen in the stratum oriens , stratum radiatum , stratum lacunosum molecular and the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus . on the other hand , forskolin labeled the hilus and the pyramidal cell layer of ca3 and ca4 with high density , a region where guanine nucleotide binding was relatively low . sodium fluoride and gpp ( nh ) p were found to enhance forskolin binding in regions in which [ 3h ] gpp ( nh ) p binding sites were present . these results indicate that most , but not all forskolin binding sites in the brain , are allosterically coupled with the stimulatory guanine nucleotide binding protein . conversely , it has also been demonstrated that some forskolin binding sites in the hippocampus are probably not guanine nucleotide regulated . 
prolactin response to perphenazine . a sensitive and specific test for pituitary tumor in hyperprolactinemic women . a simple biochemical screening test for prolactin-secreting pituitary tumors is needed because computed tomography is expensive and may be insensitive in the detection of microadenomas . we compared serial prolactin levels following perphenazine stimulation in 20 women with histologically documented tumors to those in 22 normal controls . in addition , seven women who were diagnosed as having functional ( nontumor ) hyperprolactinemia were tested . all subjects were given perphenazine , 8 mg orally . baseline and hourly serum prolactins for six hours were compared . a 200 % or greater response occurred in all control patients and functional hyperprolactinemic subjects within six hours following medication . without exception , tumor patients exhibited a markedly blunted or absent response . this markedly diminished response pattern was compatible with the presence of a pituitary adenoma and suggests that the presence of a tumor interferes with normal pituitary secretory responsiveness . 
visual field obstruction in single-puncture operative laparoscopy . the use of the laser for translaparoscopic surgery has brought with it a renewed interest in single-puncture operative laparoscopy . concern about the extent of visual obstruction created intraoperatively by the use of ancillary instruments through the accessory channel prompted this evaluation . under normal operative conditions , a 5-mm instrument protruding 10 mm or more beyond the distal end of the laparoscope will obstruct 14.6 % of the operator 's visual field . still greater curtailment of endoscopic visualization can be expected when large , modified laser probes are used . the double-puncture laparoscopic technique must be considered the method of choice for translaparoscopic conventional or laser surgical procedures . 
chorionic mycoplasmas and prematurity . in this study , recovery of ureaplasma urealyticum and mycoplasma hominis from the freshly exposed chorion following delivery was related to labor length but not to the interval between membrane rupture and delivery , to birth weight or to gestational age . 
peripartum maternal cardiomyopathy with idiopathic cardiomyopathy in the offspring . a case report . peripartum cardiomyopathy is an enigmatic disorder . a patient who developed it after delivery had a twin pregnancy complicated by demise of one fetus , preterm labor and subsequent preterm delivery of the viable twin , who died at 48 hours of life . the second twin had autopsy evidence of idiopathic cardiomyopathy , as did a prior child , who had died at 2 years of age . this report is the first on a woman with peripartum cardiomyopathy associated with idiopathic cardiomyopathy in her live-born infant . our findings , in conjunction with those noted in a review of the literature , suggest that there is a subset of peripartum cardiomyopathy that may be mediated on a genetic or immunologic basis . 
metastatic adenocarcinoma of the lung complicating pregnancy . a case report . a case of large cell undifferentiated adenocarcinoma of the lung was complicated by an aggressive clinical course and documented placental metastases . the management of these neoplasms is complex , requiring one to pay attention to the maternal , as well as fetal and neonatal , prognosis . 
factors affecting ratings of clinical teachers by medical students and residents . ratings of clinical teachers in a department of medicine by medical students and residents were examined to determine whether the ratings were systematically affected by the teachers ' academic rank , the level of the teachers ' involvement with the trainees , the educational level of trainees ( student versus resident ) , and the type of clerkship ( elective versus required ) . using 4 , 050 ratings of 430 faculty members and residents , the authors found no statistically significant differences among academic ranks , although the faculty members ' teaching effectiveness was rated significantly higher than that of residents . higher ratings of teaching effectiveness were associated with the teachers ' greater involvement with the trainees and with teaching in elective versus required clerkships . the residents consistently rated faculty members higher than the students did . 
survey of attitudes among three specialties in a teaching hospital toward alcoholics . although physicians are typically " gatekeepers " for the diagnosis and treatment of alcoholism , a lack of specific alcoholism training and negative attitudes toward alcoholics can establish formidable barriers to recognition and treatment of the condition . in the study reported here , the authors examined differences in attitudes toward and knowledge and treatment of alcoholism among physicians in three specialties . a questionnaire pertaining to alcoholism and alcoholics was mailed to 385 internists , surgeons , and psychiatrists at a teaching hospital . half received a version concerning male alcoholics , and half received one concerning female alcoholics ; the versions were identical except for the gender of the alcoholic referred to in the questionnaire . fifty-three percent returned the questionnaire , and their responses showed that these physicians viewed male and female alcoholics similarly . overall , the respondents considered them treatable but maintained negative perceptions of their personalities . the psychiatrists held the most positive views of the treatability of alcoholism and the most negative views of alcoholics ' personalities , whereas the surgeons held the most positive views of alcoholics ' personalities and the most negative views of treatability . the internists , surgeons , and psychiatrists reported significant differences in the adequacy of their education on alcoholism , in their methods of handling alcoholics , and in their desire to learn about alcoholism . these findings are discussed in terms of continuing education in alcoholism treatment for physicians . 
teaching the difficult interview in a required course on medical interviewing . a module dealing with the difficult patient interview is part of a required medical interviewing course for second-year students . using a classification of difficult doctor-patient interactions , students identify what goes wrong during interviews with simulated patients and then learn techniques to remedy these problems in order to obtain reliable medical histories . skills taught to the students include identifying the specific problem within an interview and recognizing and using their own feelings as information about the patient . attitudes encouraged in students include recognizing that the source of the problem may be the patient , the interviewer , or both ; that the physician rather than the patient may be the so-called " poor historian " ; and that the goal of managing a difficult patient interview is not counseling but rather the acquisition of accurate and precise information . 
family practice residents ' evaluation of a competency-based psychiatry curriculum . the authors report the formal evaluation of a competency-based curriculum in psychiatry in a family practice residency program at a community hospital five years after the program was implemented . in interviews , the 35 residents in the program in 1985 responded to a questionnaire on their understanding of and attitude toward the requirements of the competencies and the difficulties they encountered in documenting the competencies . all but two of the residents were aware of the nature of the curriculum , but only 43 percent had completed one or more of the 15 required competencies . the residents ' attitude toward the requirements of demonstrating specific competencies in psychiatry during the residency were generally negative , although they were favorable toward required competencies in other disciplines . the results of the present study identify specific problems in implementing such a curriculum . successful implementation may have been impeded by the novelty of the new educational format and a lack of reinforcement by faculty members . 
training pediatric residents in early intervention with handicapped children . pediatric residents gained experience in the management of disabled children in a four-session training component that linked the residency program and a school- and home-based early intervention program . each resident worked with a disabled child 's parents , a special education teacher , therapists , and others . the training emphasized working with parents and special education professionals to solve problems in the management of handicapped children and working with appropriate community agencies . the residents completed a questionnaire before and after the training that measured their perceptions of their knowledge and skill in several areas . at the completion of the rotation , they also rated their satisfaction with the training program . the results of these evaluations suggest that such a program is an effective method for introducing pediatric residents to issues concerning interventions with handicapped infants . 
participation of medical students in the care of patients with aids . 
psychiatry clerkships at u.s. medical schools . 
teaching clinical reasoning in a clinical clerkship by use of case assessments . 
factors that motivate physician faculty members in a medical school to teach cme courses . 
medical students ' attitudes toward the autopsy as an educational tool . 
themes for the coming year [ editorial ] 
evaluation of a preentrance enrichment program for minority students admitted to medical school . the authors report on an enrichment program for minority students and its effect on those students ' performance in the first year of medical school . the six-week preentrance enrichment program ( pep ) offers a curriculum of basic science courses , study skills training , and a seminar on special topics , typically on sociomedical issues . from 1973 through 1984 , 115 students who had been admitted to boston university school of medicine participated in the pep prior to matriculation . the pep participants had lower scores on the medical college admission test than minority nonparticipants admitted to the medical school . analysis of the first-year performance of pep participants , however , indicated that the participants had significantly higher proportions of pass and honors grades than minority nonparticipants in two courses and slightly higher ( though not significant ) proportions of pass and honors grades in six other courses of the nine courses in the first-year curriculum . in a related study , preliminary analysis showed that participation in the pep was one of the consistent predictors of overall academic performance during the first year . questionnaires completed by participants before and after the program and their responses to a survey at the end of their first year of medical school indicated the participants felt they had gained benefits from the program that enhanced their academic adjustment . 
tube thoracostomy and trauma--antibiotics or not ? controversy persists regarding the use of antibiotics in association with t tube thoracostomy for trauma patients . we conducted a prospective randomized study of patients requiring tube thoracostomy for pneumo- and / or hemothorax complicating blunt or penetrating thoracic trauma in an attempt to assess the efficacy of prophylactic antibiotic therapy . fifty-eight patients were included in the study . the control group ( group i ) included 28 patients who received no antibiotic therapy : the experimental group ( group ii ) included 30 patients who received cefoxitin ( 1.0 gm iv q 6 h ) commencing before tube thoracostomy and terminating 12 hours after its removal . the incidence of infectious complications ( pneumonia and / or empyema ) was recorded . among the patients not receiving antibiotics , eight of 28 ( 29 % ) developed infectious chest complications . of the patients receiving antibiotics , there was one infectious complication ( 3 % ) . this difference is statistically significant ( p = 0.0227 ) . cultures demonstrated significant conversion from negative to positive both within each group and between groups . the organism most commonly recovered was s . aureus . our findings strongly suggest that patients requiring tube thoracostomy for trauma , whether blunt or penetrating , should receive the benefit of systemic prophylactic antibiotic therapy . 
the influence of trauma to the spleen on postoperative complications and mortality . although splenectomy has been associated with an increased risk of late sepsis , it is not clear whether splenectomy for trauma increases the incidence of acute infectious complications or deaths during the initial hospital stay . we reviewed the charts of 175 trauma patients who had exploratory laparotomy between july 1977 and june 1983. eighty patients underwent total splenectomy and 15 patients had splenic salvage operations performed . a group of 80 patients with no splenic trauma ( n.s.t. ) who had laparotomy for trauma , served as a control group . these n.s.t. patients had injury severity scores ( iss ) similar to the patients who had splenectomy . the incidence and types of postoperative complications , mortality rates , and length of hospitalization were similar for both groups , indicating that splenectomy was not associated with an increased risk of postoperative complications or mortality . 
indications for emergency intravenous pyelography ( ivp ) in blunt abdominal trauma : a reappraisal . renal imaging in the diagnostic evaluation of blunt abdominal trauma is a valuable adjunct , but its indications remain controversial . classic indications for the use of emergency intravenous pyelography ( ivp ) have been liberal , but more recently the medical need , cost effectiveness , and potential risks of this approach have been questioned in favor of a more selective approach . this retrospective study was undertaken to reassess the value of emergency ivp in blunt abdominal trauma and to test the hypothesis that post-traumatic microscopic hematuria , without other physical or laboratory findings , can safely be managed by observation alone . with the aid of the computerized trauma registry at the university of virginia medical center , 50 consecutive patients undergoing emergency ivp for blunt abdominal trauma were identified over a 1-year period . a significantly abnormal ivp was found in six of seven patients with gross hematuria ( 86 % ) . no patient of 43 with microscopic hematuria had a clinically significant abnormality ( p less than 0.001 , chi-square ) . three patients in the latter group ( 7 % ) had ivp findings which were anatomically abnormal but clinically insignificant , while an equal number ( 7 % ) had ivp 's which were inadequate or misleading . emergency ivp is useful in patients with specific indications and gross hematuria , but patients with post-traumatic microscopic hematuria alone may be safely followed by observation . abdominal ct scanning is emerging as a more useful study than ivp for renal imaging in the stable patient with blunt abdominal trauma . 
the pharmacokinetics of meperidine in acute trauma patients . traumatic injury has the potential to alter the hepatic clearance and hence the efficacy and toxicity of drugs by a variety of mechanisms . these include changes in hepatic microsomal enzyme activity , hepatic blood flow rate , and plasma protein binding . unfortunately , there have been few pharmacokinetic studies in trauma patients . thus , few data are available to provide guidance in drug regimen design for these individuals . meperidine clearance was therefore evaluated in patients with traumatic injury and an effort was made to identify physiologic and / or clinical predictors of clearance which could facilitate initial dosage selection . meperidine total body clearance ( tbc ) was determined on 12 occasions at steady state following im administration of meperidine to nine severely injured nonseptic trauma patients with normal renal and hepatic function . tbc of this drug averaged 684 + / - 206 ml / min ( mean + / - sd ) and was highly correlated with ideal body weight ( ibw ) ( r2 = 0.735 ; f = 27.75 ; n = 12 ; p less than 0.01 ) . the serum concentration of the acute phase reactant protein , alpha 1 acid glycoprotein ( agp ) , which binds meperidine and many other basic drugs increased strikingly in an apparent linear manner at a rate of 27 mg / dl / day up to 9 days after the traumatic event ( r2 = 0.828 ; f = 42.30 ; n = 12 ; p less than 0.01 ) . however , this increase in binding protein concentration was not associated with an alteration in meperidine tbc as has been reported for other drugs . it is concluded that ibw may be a useful guide initial dosage selection of meperidine in acute trauma patients . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
use of temporary intraluminal shunts in selected peripheral arterial injuries . successful limb salvage following major peripheral arterial injury is now limited mainly by destruction of nerve , bone , and soft tissue . in some patients prolonged tissue ischemia may be a problem because of delays in treatment caused by associated injuries . in order to minimize tissue ischemia times , temporary arterial shunting was used in selected patients with injuries requiring fracture fixation or extensive debridement . forty-two patients with major peripheral arterial injuries were seen in 27 months . thirteen patients , including ten of the 12 with popliteal artery injuries , had placement of a temporary arterial shunt . all shunted patients had successful revascularization and no complications of the shunting occurred . in the total group of 42 there was one death and one below-knee amputation . in patients with extensive but salvageable injuries occurring with peripheral arterial injuries we feel that the use of a temporary arterial shunt is safe and may prevent prolonged severe ischemia . 
epidemiology of work-related burn injuries in massachusetts requiring hospitalization . to describe the epidemiology of hospitalized , work-related burns among massachusetts residents aged 16 years or older , 825 massachusetts residents who were burned between 1 july 1978 and 30 june 1979 , and who were treated as hospital inpatients in any of 240 new england hospitals , were studied . two hundred forty ( 29 % ) of the 825 identified burns were known to be work-related . our findings suggest that the workplace is a major contributor to hospitalized burn injury among employed males , accounting for 60 % of their burns . young workers and black workers experienced the highest rates of burning , with rates two and four times higher than their older and white counterparts , respectively . scalds were the most common type of work-related burn injury for individuals in each age category , accounting for 45 % of the burns overall . 
pneumatic antishock garments ( pasg ) : do they precipitate lower-extremity compartment syndromes ? pneumatic antishock garments ( pasg ) are widely used for treatment of hypovolemic shock and for long-term control of bleeding associated with pelvic fractures . several cases of compartment syndromes ( cs ) caused by pasg application , and with sequelae such as limb loss , myoglobinuric renal failure , and death have been reported . the aim of this study was to investigate the amount of pasg pressure needed to produce tissue anoxia . twelve normotensive subjects were investigated , and transcutaneous oxygen tension ( tcpo2 ) was measured beneath a full-length pneumatic splint at the following pressures applied : 0 , 10 , 15 , 20 , 25 , 30 , and 35 mm hg . without imposed pressure , mean tcpo2 was 70.6 mm hg . tcpo2 decreased by increasing pneumatic pressure , expressed by the equation : tcpo2 = 2.3x + 65.7 , where x is applied pressure in mm hg . tcpo2 became zero at a mean applied pressure of 28 mm hg ( 25-35 ) . it is concluded that pasg pressures of 30 mm hg or more applied to the whole limb stop microcirculation and result in tissue anoxia . even low pasg pressures carry a high risk of precipitating cs . to avoid ischemic injury new guidelines for pasg application are discussed . 
flexible medullary nailing of tibial shaft fractures . fifty-two tibial shaft fractures in 50 patients were treated with flexible medullary nails ( ender type ) . in 32 cases the fracture was closed and in the remaining 28 cases the fracture was open . forty-eight of the 52 fractures united in an average time of 16.8 weeks and there were no cases of deep infection or osteomyelitis . nonunion in four patients required a secondary procedure to obtain union . flexible medullary nailing is an excellent method for fixation of tibial shaft fractures because it combines the benefits of closed nailing and functional bracing while minimizing the disadvantages of each . three-point fixation within the medullary canal maintains length alignment and avoids rotational problems . nailing is done by closed methods without reaming . the technique allows early weight-bearing in a patellar tendon bearing cast or functional brace . dynamic controlled motion at the fracture site leads to early callus formation which is biomechanically and biologically favorable . the procedure is relatively easy to perform , short in duration , and requires little specialized equipment . flexible medullary nailing is an alternative treatment modality for selected open and closed displaced tibial shaft fractures . 
sacral fractures : classification and neurologic implications . sacral fractures can be classified , for diagnostic purposes , into three categories : 1 ) the sacral fracture which occurs in conjunction with a pelvic fracture , 2 ) the isolated sacral fracture of the lower segments ; and 3 ) the isolated sacral fracture of the upper segments . the frequency of each type of fracture decreases from ( 1 ) to ( 3 ) , but the neurologic implications increase . however , treatment for the three types should be conservative , since neurologic deficit at this level tends to improve spontaneously . 
delayed wound healing , infection , and nonunion following open reduction and internal fixation of tibial plafond fractures . the literature concerning tibial plafond fractures is briefly reviewed , and a series of 11 tibial plafond fractures of the compressive variety is presented . these fractures fall both prognostically and therapeutically into different categories based upon whether the primary mechanism of injury is rotational or compressive . the severity of the fracture , the degree of contamination , and the severity of concomitant soft-tissue injury in large part appear to determine the morbidity of surgical therapy in these patients . if rigid internal fixation can be performed in those patients with closed injuries that are primarily of the rotational type and performed with a minimum of soft-tissue trauma , this appears to be a reliable alternative in the hands of surgeons experienced with a-o technique and with this type of fracture specifically . in the presence of severe comminution and open wounds , however , the efficacy of rigid internal fixation performed by surgeons without great experience with these types of fracture is dubious . 
alcoholism in polytrauma . alcoholism is a blight which implicates numerous areas . polytrauma requires a sometimes long and expensive hospitalization , with a mortality of approximately one in three . in 250 patients ( the mean iss is the same for patients who died , whether nonalcoholics , chronic alcoholics , or occasional drinkers ) , there was a significant difference between the mortality rate of two-wheeled vehicle drivers and the mortality rate of the light vehicle drivers ( p less than 0.05 ) . the risks of morbidity and mortality amongst alcoholics increased for chronic alcoholics ( 60 % ) regardless of sex or age differences . mortality of occasional drinkers was 13.3 % , 51 % of the offenders were chronic alcoholics . chronic alcoholism in polytraumatology appears to be a serious element since 59 % of multiple injured patients had blood alcohol concentration greater than 1.20 gm / l , 65 % greater than 0.80 gm / l , and 70 % greater than 0.50 gm / l . thus chronic alcoholism is a serious index in traumatology . 
high-energy roller injuries to the upper extremity . eleven cases of high-energy industrial roller injuries treated between 1980 and 1984 were retrospectively reviewed . the dominant extremity was affected in nine . six patients sustained fractures and / or dislocations , and three of these patients required fasciotomies for clinical signs of impending compartment syndromes . all fracture / dislocations , with the exception of a scapula fracture , anterior dislocation of a thumb interphalangeal joint , and a fractured coronoid process of the ulna , required open reduction with internal fixation . three patients required split-thickness skin grafting for extensive skin degloving . two patients required immediate amputation . late sequelae included prolonged edema , nutritional depletion , neuroma formation of the superficial branch of the radial nerve , late carpal tunnel syndrome , and partial brachial plexus palsy . industrial roller injuries continue to be an occupational hazard associated with more severe crushing trauma than the low-energy wringer washer injuries first described by maccollum ( 11 ) . attention must be paid to the treatment of crushed skin , muscle , and nerves , fracture stabilization , nutritional support , and occupational therapy . concurrent monitoring for signs of a developing compartment syndrome and complications of rhabdomyolysis is essential . 
wringer washing machine injuries : criteria for obtaining radiological studies . while the number of wringer washing machine injuries is declining due to the increasing use of automatic washing machines , these injuries still occur . historically , children with wringer injuries received routine radiographs to diagnose fractures , in spite of the low fracture rate in wringer injuries . review of the records at milwaukee children 's hospital between the years 1973 and 1983 revealed that of the 99 wringer injuries seen , 80 of 99 patients were radiographed and only five fractures were diagnosed . of these fractures only two were attributable to the wringer device and these two required therapy . criteria are developed to identify which patients should undergo radiologic studies . using the criteria of localized pain or tenderness , crepitation , obvious deformity , or abnormal movement in the extremity , the two serious fractures would have been identified , and these two patients would have been radiographed . the other 78 patients would not have been radiographed . 
acute trans-rectus traumatic hernia . abdominal wall herniae following blunt trauma are rare . two cases of acute traumatic rectus abdominis muscle and anterior rectus sheath hernia , an apparently unreported entity , are described . early recognition of the injury by physical examination and sometimes ultrasonography or ct is important . repair should be early except in selected cases . 
displaced intra-articular glenoid fractures treated by open reduction and internal fixation . displaced intra-articular glenoid fractures are extremely rare . anatomic reduction , rigid internal fixation and early mobilization restored a full , painless range of motion in our two cases . 
distal pancreatectomy with splenic preservation : the anatomic basis for a meticulous operation . a case of distal pancreatectomy with splenic preservation is presented . in ten cadaver dissections of distal pancreas , an average of 22.1 tributaries of the splenic vein and 7.6 branches of the splenic artery were demonstrated . anatomic considerations for splenic salvage during distal pancreatectomy are reviewed . knowledge of the smaller pancreatic branches of the splenic vasculature is important in this surgical repair . 
intraoperative endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ercp ) in penetrating trauma of the pancreas . assessment of the integrity of the ductal system of the pancreas after a penetrating injury is mandatory and can prevent potentially fatal complications . the authors report a case in which the endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ercp ) was employed intraoperatively to carry out such assessment after a pancreatic stabwound . 
trauma as a life-lengthening agency--a biologic paradox . traumatic antero-posterior chest compression in two persons promptly ( immediately ? ) following spontaneous rupture of acute , free wall myocardial infarcts created pericardio-pleural fistulae with resultant relief of pericardial tamponade , thus permitting cardiac contractions to occur after they naturally and ordinarily would have ceased . 
bilateral primary traumatic oculomotor nerve palsy . two cases with bilateral traumatic oculomotor palsy are presented . the clinical signs , diagnosis criteria , and mechanisms of injury are discussed with a special emphasis on the absence of early reliable prognosis factors . the possibility of recovery depends on the anatomic lesion and not on the ophthalmologic findings in the acute phase . 
penetrating neck trauma : diagnostic studies in the asymptomatic patient [ letter ] 
computed tomography and lavage in blunt abdominal trauma [ letter ] 
ballistics : a pathologic examination of the wounding mechanisms of firearms [ letter ] 
cecoureterocele . we report 2 cases of cecoureterocele to emphasize the salient features of this clinical entity . both patients had a protracted clinical course with repeated episodes of urinary tract infection . a properly performed voiding cystourethrogram demonstrated the problem clearly . both cases were managed by endoscopic resection of the obstructing tissue . we describe the clinical course , radiological findings and a treatment option for this elusive problem . 
autosomal dominant transmission of ureteral triplication and bilateral amastia . we report a case of ureteral triplication as part of an autosomal dominant syndrome comprising bilateral amastia , pectus excavatum , umbilical hernia , patent ductus arteriosus , dysmorphic low set ears , ptosis , epicanthic folds with an antimongoloid slant to the eyes , hypertelorism , high arched palate , flat broad nasal bridge , tapered digits , cubitus valgus and syndactyly . 
nuclear magnetic resonance imaging of a benign cystic teratoma in the retroperitoneum . a retroperitoneal teratoma arising from the vicinity of the upper pole of the right kidney in an 18-year-old woman is described . the plain anteroposterior abdominal radiographs showed irregular calcific shadows with tooth-like calcifications within the right upper quadrant of the abdomen . the findings of a primary cystic teratoma in the retroperitoneum examined by computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of the abdomen are presented . sagittal and coronal magnetic resonance imaging scans were useful to determine the extent of the mass , and to distinguish the mass from adjacent structures and organs . 
ulcer of the trigone : a late complication of cervical cerclage . since the introduction of cervical cerclage for management of the incompetent cervix , few late complications of the procedure have been reported . we report a late complication of cervical cerclage manifested as a trigonal ulcer . trigonal erosion by the knot of a mersilene ligature that had been placed around the cervix 22 years previously caused the ulcer . endoscopic removal of the offending ligature allowed complete healing . 
demonstration of residual contrast medium in renal parenchyma using computerized tomography . residual contrast medium in the renal parenchyma was demonstrated by computerized tomography in 11 patients with renal trauma , inflammatory renal disease , infarction and a large renal cyst . the contrast medium ( 10 to 100 ml . ) was administered intravascularly 30 minutes to 48 hours before the computerized tomography scan . in each patient the scan demonstrated residual contrast medium ( either initially or after a second scan with additional contrast enhancement ) in a variety of parenchymal zones that frequently appear to be normal with other imaging techniques . after a suitable interval for accumulation of residual contrast medium , computerized tomography appears to provide better visualization of the renal parenchyma than conventional modes of examination . persistent retention of contrast medium in the renal parenchyma is believed to represent cortical damage . 
granulomatous hepatitis following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy for bladder carcinoma . a granulomatous reaction in organs outside of the urinary tract following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin administration is rare . we report a biopsy proved case of granulomatous hepatitis . 
solitary metastasis of squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder to the myocardium . we report a case of an isolated cardiac metastasis from squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder . the incidence and difficulty in the diagnosis of myocardial deposits from bladder tumors are discussed . 
urethral prolapse in girls : familial case . 
urethral hemangioma . urethral hemangiomas are uncommon lesions that can cause significant hemorrhagic morbidity . since the lesions tend to recur complete urethral excision and subsequent urethral reconstruction have been advocated in the past as the preferred method of treatment . we present an alternative method of management of urethral hemangioma . 
manipulative detorsion : beware the twist that does not turn . we report 3 cases in which the testicle was untwisted inadequately or torsion recurred soon after manipulative detorsion . while manipulative detorsion can decrease ischemia time an operation should follow as soon as possible to confirm detorsion , assure orchiopexy and prevent repetitive episodes . 
a case of melioidosis presenting with prostatic abscess in hong kong . melioidosis is endemic in southeast asia but reports of prostatic involvement are rare . we describe a patient with pseudomonas pseudomallei septicemia and a prostatic abscess who presented with signs and symptoms of a urinary tract infection . the organism was cultured from the blood , urine and prostatic pus , and was treated successfully with co-trimoxazole and surgical drainage . genitourinary infection with pseudomonas pseudomallei should be considered in patients from endemic areas , and bacteriological investigation is essential for the diagnosis and management . 
complete responses in metastatic transitional cell carcinoma of the prostate with cisplatin regimens . we describe 3 patients with metastatic transitional cell carcinoma of the prostate who achieved a complete response with regimens containing cisplatin . two patients received cyclophosphamide and weekly cisplatin , and 1 was given cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin and cisplatin . all 3 patients had extensive pulmonary metastasis at initiation of chemotherapy . one patient , who also had massive local disease , suffered an isolated brain metastasis 9 months after completion of chemotherapy but he remains in systemic remission 5 months later . another patient had bilateral brain metastases 3 months after achieving complete remission with chemotherapy , followed 4 months later by systemic relapse . the third patient , who also had bone and bone marrow metastasis , is free of disease 20 months after completion of chemotherapy . in contrast , none of 14 patients with transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder and other sites treated with the same regimens obtained a complete response . advanced transitional cell carcinoma of the prostate must be recognized promptly , since it is nonresponsive to hormonal manipulation and complete responses have been achieved with cisplatin chemotherapy programs as used in our patients . 
re : prostatic and membranous urethrorectal fistulas : a new technique of surgical closure [ letter ] 
fertility in cryptorchidism : further development of an experimental model . further development of an experimental model for evaluating fertility in cryptorchidism led to studies of unilateral cryptorchidism , endocrinological cryptorchidism , and the effects of treatment . the results demonstrate that rats with unilateral mechanical cryptorchidism have a significant diminution in the ability to impregnate females ( impregnation rate , 45 % ) when compared with sham-operated controls ( 84 % ) and rats undergoing unilateral orchiectomy ( 88 % ) . in addition , we demonstrated that lower doses of estradiol caused cryptorchidism and resulted in infertility of approximately the same degree as higher doses ( impregnation rates , 18 % and 0 % , respectively ) , but avoided obvious side effects . treatment of estradiol-induced cryptorchidism with human chorionic gonadotropin resulted in testicular descent , but did not significantly improve the ability to bear offspring ( 10 % with hcg vs . 0 % without ) . surgical orchiopexy after surgically induce mechanical cryptorchidism resulted in improved fertility ( 30 % vs . 0 % ) ; however , the improvement was still significantly less than the control rate . in summary , this experimental model demonstrates the effects of various aspects of cryptorchidism and its treatment on fertility and can easily be adapted to evaluate important clinical problems . 
ureteral urine transport : changes in bolus volume , peristaltic frequency , intraluminal pressure and volume of flow resulting from autonomic drugs . an experimental model which permits independent changes in ureteral peristalic frequency and bolus volume was employed to explore the effects of autonomic agonists on ureteral bolus volume , peristaltic frequency , intraluminal pressure and flow volume in the dog . norepinephrine caused an increase in ureteral peristaltic frequency , an elevation in intraureteral baseline and contractile pressure and a decrease in bolus volume , with a resultant decrease in the rate of fluid transport . isoproterenol caused a decrease in ureteral peristaltic frequency , and a fall in intraureteral baseline and contractile pressure , or it completely abolished peristalsis and bolus formation . these changes were accompanied by an increase in the rate of fluid transport . acetylcholine caused an increase in ureteral peristaltic frequency , an elevation of intraureteral baseline pressure but no change in contractile pressure , and a small decrease in bolus volume with a resultant small decrease in the rate of fluid transport . these data suggest that the autonomic nervous system may affect urine transport through the ureter by not only regulating peristaltic frequency but also by influencing bolus volume . 
analyses of avidin-biotin complexes with lectins of membrane glycoproteins in the urinary bladder of rats treated with n-butyl-n- ( 4-hydroxybutyl ) nitrosamine . the bladder epithelium was examined by staining with avidin-biotin complexes with lectins to determine the early membrane changes during bladder carcinogenesis in rats treated with n-butyl-n- ( 4-hydroxybutyl ) -nitrosamine ( bhbn ) . concanavalia ensiformis ( con a ) , triticum vulgaris ( wga ) , ricinus communis ( rca ) and arachis hypogaea ( pna ) were used as probes . the cellular distributions of lectin particles were distinguished into membranous and cytoplasmic patterns . normal bladder cells stained very slightly and showed a spotty membranous pattern . after treatment of rats with bhbn for two or three weeks , staining became stronger and its pattern changed from a membranous to a cytoplasmic type . the staining of bladder cancer cells induced by bhbn varied from area to area and with different lectins . these data indicated that changes in carbohydrates occur in the bladder cell membrane during the early phase of carcinogenesis . 
prostate adenocarcinoma : effects of castration on in situ androgen uptake by individual cell types . the cellular distribution of androgen uptake was investigated in normal prostate and in dunning r3327h prostate tumors in copenhagen rats in vivo at different time intervals after castration . quantitative dry-autoradiography was used to demonstrate which cell types have androgen binding , and to quantify the amount of androgen binding per cell type during initial castration-induced tumor regression and subsequent tumor relapse . regardless of time after castration , tumor stromal nuclei had significantly more 3h-dihydrotestosterone ( dht ) labelling than did tumor epithelial nuclei ( p less than .001 ) . on the other hand , prostate gland epithelial nuclei showed more 3h-dht binding than prostate gland stromal nuclei . tumor stromal nuclei had greater dht uptake than any other cell type measured in the tumor or in secondary sex organs at all times after castration . different cell types responded differently to castration . the 3h-dht uptake measured in tumor stromal nuclei after castration showed that one day after castration 14.6 + / - 2.1 silver grains were present , 14 days after castration 9.3 + / - 2.4 were seen , and 50 days after castration 18.9 + / - 1.8 were present . this significant increase from 14 days to 50 days is not seen in the other cell types . this study gives insight into the cellular androgen receptor distribution in normal and malignant rat prostate tissue . 
well differentiated clear cell renal carcinoma : significance of nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid patterns studied by flow cytometry . nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy was determined in 206 samples of well differentiated clear cell renal carcinoma via a previously described technique on paraffin-embedded archival material . grade 2 tumors had a higher incidence of abnormal deoxyribonucleic acid patterns than grade 1 tumors . of stage 1 well differentiated clear cell renal tumors 60 per cent had a normal deoxyribonucleic acid histogram pattern , whereas 67 per cent of higher stage tumors had an abnormal pattern . the existence of abnormal nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid histogram patterns in the primary tumor tissue had a significant correlation with subsequent development of metastatic disease , independent of tumor grade and stage . the 10-year actuarial survival rate was 62 per cent for patients with normal deoxyribonucleic acid histograms and 37 per cent for patients with abnormal patterns . these results demonstrate that nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy measured by flow cytometry is an important variable in the classification and determination of prognosis for patients with clear cell renal carcinoma . 
estrogen enhancement of androgen-induced renal growth in the male rat . 17 beta-estradiol enhances dihydrotestosterone-induced growth of the castrate male rat kidney by increasing cell number , cell size and tissue water retention . no estrogen enhancement was observed in sex accessory tissues or other organs . this estrogen enhancement of androgen-induced growth is discussed in relation to species and organ specificity . 
mechanisms of venous occlusion during canine penile erection : an anatomic demonstration . hemodynamic studies have clearly demonstrated that intracorporeal injection of papaverine causes an increase of venous outflow resistance , and we therefore undertook a study of the venous drainage of the canine penis to delineate the anatomic changes in the venular structure during papaverine-induced erection . in 11 dogs , the corpora cavernosa were examined by corrosion casting in six and serial trichrome staining and histologic sectioning in five . low-power scanning electron microscopy of the corrosion casts demonstrated the existence of a venular plexus interposed between the tunica albuginea and the sinusoidal spaces . after papaverine injection , this subalbugineal venular plexus is compressed between the dilated sinusoids from below and the tunica albuginea from above , such that venous drainage is effectively impeded . examination of two cadaveric human penile corrosion casts by low-power scanning electron microscopy revealed evidence of a similar subalbugineal venular plexus draining into the emissary veins along the shaft of the penis . based on the above , a model for the anatomic basis of venous occlusion during penile erection is outlined . along with arteriolar and sinusoidal smooth-muscle relaxation , this can account for the three basic hemodynamic changes necessary for erection : increased arterial inflow , increased intracorporeal pressure , and increased venous outflow resistance . 
long-term results of resection of renal cell cancer with extension into inferior vena cava . from july 2 , 1971 to april 1 , 1985 , 47 patients ( median age 63 years ) with renal cell cancer extending into the renal vein or inferior vena cava were evaluated and treated . two-thirds of the tumors occurred in men and three-fourths were found in the right kidney . of the 44 patients operated on 35 had no evidence of preoperative metastatic disease at operation . the patients were divided into ideal , favorable and unfavorable subgroups . the adjusted 5 and 10-year survival rates in the former 2 groups ( 32 patients ) were 68.8 and 60.2 per cent , respectively . in contrast , 12 patients with nodal involvement or metastases had an adjusted median survival time of 1.2 years with no survival extending beyond 4.8 years . we believe that an extended operation for renal cell cancer with involvement of the vena cava is warranted and provides reasonable long-term survival in properly selected patients . 
sarcomatoid carcinoma of the kidney . among 315 cases of parenchymal renal carcinoma resected between 1975 and 1985 , 19 cases ( 6 per cent ) of sarcomatoid carcinoma were identified . all patients were symptomatic or had a palpable mass in the flank at hospitalization . tumor stage generally was advanced at operation and metastases were detected in 8 patients ( robson stage iv ) , all of whom died after an average postoperative survival of 8 months . in 3 patients there was tumor invasion of the renal vein ( robson stage iiia ) , and they died after an average postoperative period of 11 months . of 4 patients with perinephric fat invasion ( robson stage ii ) 2 died of cancer after an average survival of 15 months and 2 are alive with no evidence of disease for an average of 73 months postoperatively . in these later 2 cases the sarcomatoid areas constituted less than 5 per cent of the entire tumor and the remaining tumor was low grade carcinoma . in 3 patients adequate followup is not available and 1 was lost to followup . this histological variant of parenchymal cell carcinoma is a high grade malignancy with a poor prognosis . operative treatment appears to be ineffective in modifying the behavior of the tumor . 
volume capacity and pressure characteristics of the continent ileal reservoir used for urinary diversion . the volume capacity and the pressure characteristics of the continent ileal reservoir for urinary diversion were studied at specific intervals postoperatively in 26 patients . the reservoir volume increased during the first year postoperatively from approximately 100 ml . at operation to a mean of 735 ml . and then remained stable during an observation period of up to 7 years . the basal pressure increased during filling from 0 to about 10 cm . water . during physiological conditions , that is when the reservoir was filled by diuresis , the basal pressure was equal to those pressures measured during saline infusion at corresponding reservoir volumes . calculation of the magnitude of motor activity by 2 different methods showed a significant decrease in activity at 12 months compared to at 2 months after construction of the reservoir . data from the continent urostomy reservoir were compared to corresponding data from the continent ileostomy and cecal reservoirs for fecal diversion , these being obtained in previous studies in our laboratory . the ileal reservoirs used for fecal or urinary diversion were practically identical with regard to volume capacity , basal pressure and motor activity . however , the cecal reservoir had a significantly lower volume capacity and higher basal pressure at corresponding reservoir volumes , while the motor activity was approximately 10 times greater than in the ileal reservoir . the results indicate that with regard to volume capacity and pressure characteristics the ileal reservoir is superior to the cecal reservoir as a receptacle for urine . 
chronic interstitial cystitis : a heterogeneous syndrome . a series of 28 patients with interstitial cystitis and 14 healthy volunteers were studied . we found marked histopathological differences between classic ( ulcerative ) interstitial cystitis and early ( nonulcerative ) interstitial cystitis . the bladder mucosa of patients with classic disease exhibited focal ulceration , edema and perineural-perivascular infiltrates . there was a marked increase in 2 distinct mast cell populations . mast cells increased in the detrusor muscle and mucosa . mucosal mast cells , unlike those in the muscular coat , are susceptible to aldehyde fixation , and require special fixation and staining techniques for proper demonstration . these cells were numerous in the epithelium and were recovered in bladder washings , consistent with the finding that they have a migratory capacity . in nonulcerative interstitial cystitis all signs of mast cell activation were absent , and the histopathological changes were few and fairly uncharacteristic . we also observed some marked clinical differences between ulcerative and nonulcerative interstitial cystitis . these 2 conditions appear to represent separate entities and should be evaluated separately in clinical studies . 
stage t1 , grade 3 transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder : an unfavorable tumor ? transurethral resection only was performed in 172 patients with initial stage ta , t1 transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder . additional treatment during the course of disease was given to 9 patients with carcinoma in situ and to 8 patients with tumor progression . the mean followup was 106 months . the 10-year survival rates were 95 per cent for patients with stage ta , grade 1 disease , 89 per cent for stage ta , grade 2 , 84 per cent for stage ta , grade 3 , 78 per cent for stage t1 , grade 2 and 50 per cent for stage t1 , grade 3. the percentage of first tumor recurrence at the same site increased with tumor grade ( stage t1 , grade 3 was 74 per cent ) . the recurrence rate in stage t1 , grade 3 tumors ( 4.08 ) differed significantly from the other groups of superficial tumors . the tumor progression rate for stage t1 , grade 3 tumors ( 32.5 per cent ) was significantly higher as well . the characteristics of stage t1 , grade 3 tumors with and without progression were different in regard to multiplicity , recurrence rate , mean interval to recurrence and type of tumor invasion . of the 13 patients who died of progressive neoplastic disease 11 presented initially with stage t1 , grade 3 tumors . when these results are considered it is obvious that a patient with a stage t1 , grade 3 tumor deserves additional therapy , such as chemotherapy , immunotherapy or phototherapy . 
carcinoma in situ of the bladder extending into the seminal vesicles . involvement of the urethra or distal ureter in 30 to 50 per cent of the patients with carcinoma in situ of the bladder is well known . carcinoma in situ of the bladder extending to the seminal vesicles rarely has been mentioned . we discuss 2 patients with extension of carcinoma in situ into the seminal vesicles and replacement of the normally present cylindroid mucosal lining . carcinoma in situ of the ureter , bladder and prostatic ducts also was present in both patients . 
penile prosthesis reimplantation . occasionally , penile prostheses are removed following erosion , infection or malfunction and they are not replaced immediately . patients may present later for reimplantation of a penile prosthesis after an interval free of a device . however , no information is available as to the outcome and difficulties of such a procedure . we reviewed the charts of all 305 patients undergoing implantation of a penile prosthesis at our institution and contacted all 8 who had undergone reimplantation . bilateral prostheses were placed in 4 patients . unilateral prostheses only could not be implanted in either side because of extensive fibrosis . of the 8 patients 4 are able to have intercourse ( 1 with difficulty ) and reimplantation of the prosthesis often was difficult or impossible . we conclude that reimplantation of a penile prosthesis is beneficial for some patients but they should be informed of the possibility of unsatisfactory results . 
immunosuppressive acidic protein in patients with testicular cancer . serum immunosuppressive acidic protein was compared to lactic dehydrogenase as a marker for testicular cancer in 54 patients with testicular cancer , 62 with benign urological diseases and 203 healthy controls . the mean value of serum immunosuppressive acidic protein in patients with testicular cancer ( 598 + / - 293 micrograms . per ml . ) was statistically higher than that in patients with benign disease ( 429 + / - 163 micrograms . per ml . ) and healthy controls ( 368 + / - 73 micrograms . per ml . ) . there were statistically significant differences in serum immunosuppressive acidic protein levels between controls and patients with stage 2 ( p less than 0.0001 ) or stage 3 ( p less than 0.001 ) testicular cancer , and between those with stage 1 and stage 2 ( p less than 0.0001 ) or stage 3 ( p less than 0.001 ) disease , respectively . the usefulness of immunosuppressive acidic protein as a marker for testicular cancer also was compared to that of lactic dehydrogenase . immunosuppressive acidic protein and lactic dehydrogenase levels were elevated almost equally in patients with stage 2 or 3 disease ( range 71 to 92 per cent ) . however , immunosuppressive acidic protein levels were elevated in only 3 of 25 patients with stage 1 cancer ( 12 per cent ) , compared to 11 of 25 ( 44 per cent ) with elevated lactic dehydrogenase levels . immunosuppressive acidic protein was correlated better with tumor stage . in conclusion , serum immunosuppressive acidic protein determinations may be useful in patients with testicular cancer for staging , monitoring treatment results and predicting recurrence . 
atrophy and proliferation in the young adult prostate . atrophic and proliferative changes in the prostate gland are regarded as beginning in middle age and characterizing the prostates of older men . a total of 51 prostates of men between 19 and 29 years old demonstrated a spectrum of proliferative abnormalities , including ductal and glandular hyperplasia , atypical hyperplasia , dysplasia , carcinoma in situ and incipient adenocarcinoma . the majority of the prostates also contained substantial areas of atrophy . patterns of atrophic change included cystic dilatation of glands with flattened epithelium apparently secondary to obstructive hyperplasia of ductal epithelium , areas comparable to sclerotic atrophy of the aged prostate and segments having the appearance of a prepubertal unstimulated prostate . these observations contrast sharply with conventional concepts of the biology of the prostate gland , and suggest a number of hypotheses regarding the early antecedents and evolution of prostatic carcinoma and cancer in general . 
prone flexible cystoscopy : an adjunct to percutaneous stone removal . percutaneous removal of renal calculi is completed most often in the united states after initial placement of a retrograde ureteral catheter . catheterization usually is accomplished with a rigid cystoscope with the patient in a dorsal lithotomy position , following which the patient must be turned to a prone position for percutaneous puncture and stone removal . we report our experience with the use of a flexible cystoscope with the patient in a prone position for placement of a retrograde catheter . in male patients this approach was difficult secondary to urethral length and angulation . currently , in male patients we prefer a supine approach with the flexible cystoscope . in female patients the prone approach was performed easily . among female patients prone cystoscopy for retrograde ureteral catheterization resulted in decreased operating room time , less manipulation of the anesthetized patient and creation of a 2-tiered field to maintain the sterility of the retrograde ureteral catheter . we found the prone approach to be feasible and effective in female patients . 
clinical versus urodynamic diagnosis in an incontinent geriatric female population . the clinical presentation of incontinence was compared to diagnoses based on urological and urodynamic evaluation in 135 elderly women assessed consecutively in an outpatient clinic . most patients ( 64 per cent ) presented with mixed symptoms : 16 per cent presented with pure stress and 16 per cent with pure urge incontinence . after evaluation 46 per cent of the patients had stress incontinence with a stable bladder , 27 per cent had detrusor instability or hyperreflexia without sphincter weakness and 19 per cent had mixed urodynamic abnormalities . presenting symptoms were predictive of urodynamic diagnosis in 64 per cent of the patients with pure stress incontinence and 55 per cent with pure urge incontinence . in general , symptoms in our patient population were less predictive of urodynamic findings than in previously reported series of younger incontinent women but they were more predictive than in other series of elderly women . predictive values for some urodynamic findings were enhanced by combining a symptom with certain physical findings . implications of these data for the evaluation and treatment of incontinence in the geriatric population are discussed . 
radical transurethral resection of the prostate in male paraplegics revisited : further clinical experience and urodynamic considerations for its effectiveness . we report our experience with radical transurethral resection of the prostate performed on 89 male spinal cord injury subjects . the over-all success rate of modified sphincterotomy was 90 per cent , although there was a 14 per cent recurrence rate with time . urodynamically , success was characterized by a statistically significant reduction in the degree of detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia , an increase in vesical compliance and a reduction in detrusor hyperreflexia . these results suggest an effect on the distal sphincteric area by the adrenergic system in the genesis of detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia . it is suggested that radical transurethral resection of the prostate exerts this effect via a surgical sympathectomy , while continence is preserved by the activity of the untouched external urethral sphincter . 
the use of mechanical stimulation to obtain the sacral reflex latency : a new technique . we determined sacral reflex latencies and morphologies in 18 neurologically normal patients and 83 with neurological disease by stimulating the glans penis or clitoris using electrical and a new technique of mechanical stimulation , and recording from the external urethral sphincter . the results with both stimulation techniques were compared among various diagnostic groups . in normal patients the mean sacral reflex latencies were 35.3 + / - 2.5 ( standard deviation ) msec . with electrical stimulation , and 39.1 + / - 4.0 msec . with mechanical stimulation . the mean reflex latencies in patients with lower motor neuron lesions studied by both methods were statistically longer than in normal subjects , and the mean reflex latencies in patients with upper motor neuron impairment studied by both methods were not statistically different from those in normal subjects . the morphological findings of the reflex tracings suggest that both types of evoked responses follow the same general anatomical pathway and both resemble a special human flexor reflex . the mechanical technique has advantages over the electrical technique because it is less painful and in certain instances it is easier to obtain . 
the mucosal collar in hypospadias surgery . formation of a mucosal collar from the inner surface of the prepuce offers the surgeon who performs hypospadias repairs the opportunity to create a cosmetically normal-appearing phallus . this technique results in transposition of mucosal membrane type of tissue to the subglandular area to complete the normal repair . 
the barcat balanic groove technique for the repair of distal hypospadias . the barcat balanic groove technique for the repair of distal hypospadias creates a neourethra with a ventral penile skin flap and a ventral glandular flap , both of which are based at the meatus . a series of 105 consecutive patients with distal hypospadias operated on by the same surgeon is presented . the primary complication was fistula formation in 15 per cent of the patients . 
prune belly syndrome : 35 years of experience . between 1949 and 1984 , 50 children with the prune belly syndrome were treated at our institution . the modes of evaluation and treatment , and the long-term results are discussed . 
silent renal obstruction with severe functional loss after extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy : a report of 2 cases . we report 2 cases of irreversible renal damage after extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy . the patients experienced little or no discomfort after lithotripsy and they did not return for followup until 5 months later . one patient had total loss of function of the treated kidney and the other had only 11 per cent remaining function . both patients had ureteral obstruction documented by retrograde pyeloureterography and neither exhibited any renal arterial pathological condition on selective angiography . 
segmental renal artery infarction : a case report with computerized tomography scan and angiographic correlation . segmental renal artery infarction results in a clinical syndrome that generally involves transient hematuria , leukocytosis , fever and flank or abdominal pain , and generally occurs in patients with a history of atherosclerotic , cardiac or thromboembolic diseases . we present a case that demonstrates the characteristic appearance of this lesion on a computerized tomography scan . angiographic correlation is provided . 
bilateral renal metastases from squamous cell carcinoma of the anus . we report a case of bilateral renal metastases from squamous cell carcinoma of the anus . the patient underwent sequential bilateral radical nephrectomy , and has remained free of disease and in good health on dialysis for more than 8 months . 
brain metastases from transitional cell carcinoma . we report 2 cases of transitional cell carcinoma , each with a single metastasis to the brain . both patients underwent craniotomy with resection of the metastatic deposit and adjuvant whole brain radiotherapy . one patient died 4 months later of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis , while the other patient survived 1 year with no evidence of intracranial disease at autopsy despite widespread metastatic involvement of other organs . 
platelet antagonists eliminate thromboembolic complications of small-diameter arterial prostheses . an animal model suitable for study of the origin and method of prevention of thromboembolic complications of arterial prostheses has been developed in the rabbit . in phase i of the experiments 42 new zealand white rabbits underwent insertion of polytetrafluoroethylene ( ptfe ) aortic grafts , 10 mm in length and of 2 mm internal diameter ( i.d. ) ( n = 17 ) and 3 mm i.d. ( n = 25 ) . the patency rate at 3 months was 24 % and 82 % , respectively . unexpected ischemic hind limb ulcers occurred in nine ( 38 % ) of the long-term survivors . arteriograms in these animals showed a typical embolic occlusion of a distal artery , suggesting that the ulcers were due to embolization of loose mural thrombus , which was present in 50 % of the grafts when removed . in phase ii experiments 54 rabbits were randomly allocated to receive aspirin ( asa ) 10 mg / kg / day and dipyridamole ( dpm ) 10 mg / kg / day ( n = 25 ) or placebo ( n = 29 ) . both regimens began 3 days before insertion of ptfe aortic grafts ( 10 mm long and 3 mm i.d. ) . serum thromboxane b2 concentrations in the control group averaged 300.4 + / - 147.4 ng / ml and 43.2 + / - 58.6 ng / ml in the asa / dpm group ( p less than 0.0005 ) . with the use of autologous indium 111 oxine-labeled platelets , a graft platelet accumulation index ( gpai ) was calculated as the graft : reference ratio of emissions . asa / dpm significantly reduced the mean gpai calculated from grafts and reference aorta removed 48 hours after graft insertion from 69.3 + / - 4.0 on placebo ( n = 4 ) to 34.3 + / - 2.9 ( n = 4 ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
neointimal hyperplasia occurring after carotid endarterectomy in a canine model : effect of endothelial cell seeding vs . perioperative aspirin . neointimal hyperplasia of the arterial wall may occur after carotid endarterectomy . this proliferative lesion is a pathologic response of the injured arterial wall and may lead to progressive stenosis . we investigated the effect of endothelial cell seeding ( ecs ) or antiplatelet therapy with aspirin ( asa ) on inhibition of this lesion in a canine model . endarterectomies were performed in 160 carotid arteries ; 46 endarterectomies were treated perioperatively with aspirin ( 325 mg per day ) , 34 were seeded with a high density ( 3 x 10 ( 6 ) ) of autogenous endothelial cells , and 80 were untreated control arteries . at selected time intervals , the patent arteries were perfusion-fixed and the cross-sectional area ( measured in square millimeters ) of neointimal hyperplasia was measured by means of digital planimetry . at 6 weeks , patency of the endarterectomized carotid artery was 88 % in the asa and ecs groups , in contrast to 35 % in the control group ( p less than 0.01 ) . the cross-sectional area of neointimal hyperplasia was not significantly different in the asa and the control groups at 6 weeks . however , the ecs group showed a marked reduction in neointimal hyperplasia at 6 weeks ( p less than 0.01 ) . this inhibition of neointimal hyperplasia after carotid endarterectomy by ecs may reflect accelerated luminal healing or a direct inhibition of smooth muscle cell proliferation in the injured arterial wall . 
kinetics of vein graft hyperplasia : association with tangential stress . vein grafts become thicker as they adapt to arterial circulation , and in large measure this is the consequence of cellular hyperplasia . the kinetics of smooth muscle cell ( smc ) and endothelial cell ( ec ) replication were evaluated in rabbit jugular vein segments transplanted into the carotid arterial circulation to define the role of cell proliferation in this process , and these data were correlated with dimensional changes in grafts from 1 hour to 24 weeks after implantation . at 1 hour most of the perianastomotic endothelium was denuded , as were occasional cells in the graft away from the anastomosis . ec replication ( thymidine labeling index ) in the center of the graft increased 400 times during the first week and produced an intact endothelial surface by 2 weeks . the ec thymidine index then fell progressively to quiescent pretransplant levels by the twelfth week . smc replication was maximal at 1 week after grafting and returned to near quiescent levels at 12 and 24 weeks . graft wall thickness and cross-sectional area reached a maximum at 12 weeks and then remained constant . deoxyribonucleic acid content exhibited a thirty-five-fold increase in the first 4 weeks , then did not change . likewise , smc mass did not increase after 4 weeks . further increase in cross-sectional wall area between 4 and 12 weeks was accounted for by accumulation of connective tissue . the final ratio of luminal radius to wall thickness decreased to a level equal to that of normal artery . since blood pressure did not change over the period of the study , this observation supports a possible regulatory role for wall tangential stress in the modification of vein graft structure after transplantation into the arterial circulation . 
intraoperative assessment of renal and visceral artery reconstruction : the role of duplex scanning and spectral analysis . to refine our ability to assess intraoperatively renal and visceral reconstructions , we have investigated the usefulness of combined duplex scanning and doppler spectral analysis to determine the technical adequacy and flow characteristics of these repairs . we studied 62 patients ( 116 arteries ) who underwent renal ( 83 arteries ) or visceral ( 13 ) reconstruction by transaortic endarterectomy ( 76 ) , autogenous graft ( 12 ) or prosthetic ( 5 ) bypass , reimplantation ( 2 ) , and dilation ( 1 ) . twenty-six nonreconstructed vessels were also studied , including preoperative arteries ( 6 ) , unrepaired arteries ( 14 ) , and normal renal arteries ( donor nephrectomies ) ( 6 ) . duplex scanning was performed by means of a 7.5 or 10 mhz probe placed in a sterile glove and plastic sleeve . peak ( vs ) and mean ( vm ) velocities measured in meters per second were subsequently calculated from frequency spectral analysis . spectral broadening ( sb ) and aortic inflow data were also collected and analyzed . there were no complications related to ultrasound scanning . mean scan time was 7.8 minutes . fourteen of 26 nonreconstructed vessels ( 54 % ) appeared normal by duplex scanning , including all six control ( normal ) renal arteries . sixty-five reconstructed arteries ( 68 % ) appeared normal , 27 had various minor defects , and four had major defects ( three occlusions and one floating thrombus ) . the major defects were repaired , whereas minor ones were not . confirmatory studies were obtained in 19 ( 73 % ) nonoperated and 73 ( 76 % ) operated vessels . there were two false negative duplex studies ( sensitivity 89 % ) and 17 false positive duplex studies--all minor defects ( specificity 77 % ) . the predictive value of duplex scans in detecting the presence of confirmed defects was tau = 0.47 ( p = 0.01 ) . although sb correlated with b-mode imaging alone ( tau = 0.21 , p = 0.07 ) , it added no independent value in predicting the results of a confirmatory study . no other variable ( vs , vm , or aortic inflow ) added to the duplex scan in predicting an abnormal confirmatory study . detailed renal and visceral artery spectral analysis data are provided for validation of this technique and comparison with transcutaneous studies . these data suggest that the requirement for reliable and immediate assessment of renal and visceral reconstructions , particularly those involving transaortic extraction endarterectomy , is satisfied by duplex scanning . 
air-plethysmography and the effect of elastic compression on venous hemodynamics of the leg . leg volume changes during exercise have been measured in absolute units ( milliliters ) by means of a new method of air-plethysmography . venous volume ( vv ) , venous filling time , and venous filling index on standing from the recumbent position , ejected volume ( ev ) and ejection fraction ( ef = ev x 100 / vv ) with one tiptoe movement , and residual volume ( rv ) and residual volume fraction ( rvf = rv x 100 / vv ) after 10 tiptoe movements were measured in normal limbs , limbs with superficial venous incompetence , and limbs with deep venous disease . the same measurements were repeated with a graduated medium compression stocking in limbs with svi and graduated high compression stockings in limbs with dvd . ambulatory venous pressure was measured at the same time , with a needle in a vein in the foot . the results indicate that this method of air-plethysmography is not only of diagnostic value but offers a new and unique technique to assess and study the hemodynamic effects of different forms of elastic compression . the lower ambulatory venous pressure , produced by the elastic compression , was the result of a reduction in reflux and an improvement in the calf muscle ejecting ability during rhythmic exercise . 
the impact of multiple operations on the importance of arterial wall cultures . the present study reviewed arterial culture data from 172 patients undergoing major vascular reconstructions between july 1 , 1977 , and dec . 31 , 1984. prosthetic graft infection was documented in 0 of 97 cases ( 0 % ) with negative arterial cultures but in six of 75 cases ( 8 % ) with positive arterial cultures ( chi 2 = 5.84 ; 0.01 less than p less than 0.025 ) . the data were reanalyzed after the patients were subdivided into two groups on the basis of the numbers of operations : group i ( 132 patients ) --a culture obtained at initial vascular reconstruction--and group ii ( 40 patients ) --a culture obtained at a subsequent vascular reconstruction . positive arterial cultures had no predictive value for graft infection among patients in group i ( 1 of 57 cases vs . 0 of 75 cases ; chi 2 = 0.019 ) , whereas the presence of positive arterial cultures was associated with a significant increase in the incidence of graft infection in group ii patients ( 5 of 18 cases vs . 0 of 22 cases ; chi 2 = 4.68 ; 0.025 less than p less than 0.05 ) . for group i patients , we believe that neither routine arterial culture nor long-term antibiotic therapy for patients with positive arterial cultures is indicated . for group ii patients we recommend that routine arterial cultures should be obtained ; perioperative antibiotics should be continued until definitive arterial culture information is available ; and positive arterial cultures should be treated with a short course of high-dose intravenous antibiotics . thereafter , long-term treatment of positive arterial cultures with oral antibiotics , although not statistically validated , is probably appropriate . 
the reoperative potential of infrainguinal bypass : long-term limb and patient survival . the present study reviews the fate of patients undergoing reoperation after failure of infrainguinal bypass grafts . during a 10-year period , 202 patients with failed distal bypass grafts had 389 infrainguinal reoperative procedures , an average of 1.9 reoperations per patient . including the initial procedure and subsequent reoperations , a total of 591 operations were performed in this group . secondary bypass was performed in 101 patients , a tertiary procedure in 51 , a fourth bypass in 30 , and more than four operations were required in 20 patients . reoperation was performed to treat severe ischemia ( rest pain , ulceration , or gangrene ) in 377 of 389 cases ( 97 % ) . repetitive bypass was performed with autogenous vein in 21 cases ( 7.4 % ) , composite grafts in 16 patients ( 5.6 % ) , and polytetrafluoroethylene in 247 cases ( 87 % ) . the remaining 105 reoperations were thrombectomy in 77 cases , thrombectomy plus distal angioplasty in 20 cases , and profundaplasty in eight cases . the distal anastomosis was to the popliteal artery in 14 % of reoperative cases and to the tibial or peroneal artery in 59 % . mean follow-up for all patients was 70 months . four operative deaths occurred in 389 reoperations ( 1.0 % ) , and there were 35 late deaths . the cumulative life-table 5-year survival rate for all patients was 80 % . the operative morbidity rate was 12.3 % , including wound infection in 3.1 % and hematoma in 6.4 % . sixty-seven cases required major amputation , below-knee in 48 ( 72 % ) and above-knee in 19 ( 28 % ) . the 5-year limb salvage rate was 59 % . cumulative graft patency was 37 % at 5 years . the 80 % 5-year survival rate may reflect aggressive management of associated carotid and coronary artery disease . the demonstrated long survival indicates that recurrent ischemia after distal bypass failure requires attention . in this study , re-operation provided long-term limb salvage in most cases without significant compromise in patient safety or amputation level if amputation was required . 
femorofemoral grafts for lower limb ischemia caused by intra-aortic balloon pump . from january 1975 to december 1985 , 1454 patients had an intra-aortic balloon inserted for cardiac assistance . eighty balloon-dependent patients had severe limb ischemia and required a femorofemoral graft ( ffg ) ( 5 % of the total group of patients ) . twenty-nine of the 80 patients with grafts ( or 36 % ) left the hospital and 28 were followed up for an average of 40 months to determine late complications associated with the crossover grafts . all grafts remained patent . the 28 patients were classified into five groups according to the degree and type of lower limb ischemia . group i consisted of 13 asymptomatic patients ( 46 % ) ; group ii had four ( 14 % ) patients with mild claudication caused by preexisting peripheral arteriosclerosis ; group iii comprised four patients ( 14 % ) without preexisting disease but claudication subsequent to the ffg ; group iv had five patients with irreversible ischemic sequelae before grafting ending in amputation , foot drop , or persistent paresthesia ; and group v consisted of two patients with graft infection ( 7 % ) . the perioperative mortality rate of the balloon-dependent patients with an ffg ( 64 % ) reflects the gravity of the cardiac condition . placement of an ffg to relieve limb ischemia in these patients is followed by few immediate or late complications in the survivors and any persistent limb changes were related to the prolonged ischemia present before revascularization . our data suggest that in balloon-dependent patients with limb-threatening ischemia , aggressive use of the ffg is limb-saving , durable , and allows continuation of balloon support . 
sequestration of platelets in the pulmonary circulation as a consequence of protamine reversal of the anticoagulant effects of heparin . 
comparison between the transabdominal and retroperitoneal approach for reconstruction of the infrarenal abdominal aorta . to evaluate the efficacy of the retroperitoneal approach ( rp ) when compared with the transperitoneal ( tp ) approach in elective aortoiliac reconstruction , 104 consecutive cases were reviewed . from june 1983 through december 1985 , 50 patients underwent aortoiliac reconstruction ( 26 for aortoiliac occlusive disease [ aiod ] and 20 for abdominal aortic aneurysm [ aaa ] ) through the tp approach and 54 patients underwent operation ( 30 for aiod and 24 for aaa ) through the rp approach . both groups had similar revascularization procedures , associated diseases , and preoperative cardiac and pulmonary function parameters . the tp approach was associated with a larger intraoperative blood loss ( 1950 + / - 196 ml ) when compared with the rp approach ( 1296 + / - 109 ml ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . the intraoperative crystalloid requirements were also significantly higher for the tp approach ( 5994 + / - 296 ml ) when compared with the rp approach ( 4455 + / - 295 ml ) ( p less than 0.0005 ) . similarly , the intraoperative blood requirements were higher for the tp approach ( 1235 + / - 115 ml ) than the rp approach ( 853 + / - 61 ml ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . both groups had similar operative times . nasogastric intubation and initiation of oral feeding was significantly prolonged in the tp group when compared with the rp group ( p less than 0.001 ) . postoperative hospitalization was also considerably prolonged in the tp group when compared with the rp group ( p less than 0.02 ) . this experience demonstrates that the rp approach is a preferable alternative to the tp route in elective aortoiliac reconstruction . 
increased resistance to bacteremic graft infection after endothelial cell seeding . 
microporous vascular grafts do not require neointima for resistance to bacteremic infection . 
successful endothelial seeding with omentally derived microvascular endothelial cells . 
selective surgical therapy of the budd-chiari syndrome provides superior survivor rates than conservative medical management . the budd-chiari syndrome is an unusual form of portal hypertension caused by hepatic vein occlusion , which results in centrilobular congestion and necrosis . its overall mortality rate exceeds 50 % at 2 years , and optimal treatment remains controversial . to determine optimal therapy on the basis of clinical and angiographic data , we retrospectively analyzed 30 patients with this disease treated at the university of california , los angeles or the university of southern california school of medicine between 1955 and 1985. twelve patients were treated conservatively with diuretics , anticoagulants , paracentesis , and / or peritoneal-venous shunt . eighteen patients were treated by definitive surgery : side-to-side portocaval shunt ( four ) , mesocaval shunt ( four ) , side-to-side splenorenal shunt ( one ) , liver transplantation ( two ) , transatrial membranotomy ( tm ) ( two ) , tm followed by inferior vena cava reconstruction ( ivcr ) ( one ) , tm followed by mesocaval shunt ( one ) simultaneous ivcr and side-to-side portocaval shunt ( one ) , ivcr ( one ) , and azygousatrial shunt followed 4 years later by a splenopulmonary shunt ( one ) . overall the surgical group had survival rates superior to the medical group , with a 2-year survival rate of 54 % for the surgical group vs . 9 % for the medical group ( p less than 0.089 ) . on the basis of these data we conclude that surgical therapy is superior to medical therapy for the budd-chiari syndrome . however , the operation must be tailored to treat the specific anatomic and clinical abnormality . guidelines to select the proper surgical procedure are given . 
alpha 2-adrenergic receptor levels in obstructive and spastic raynaud 's syndrome . the present study examines the hypothesis that alterations in the activity of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors ( a2r ) may underlie the clinical vasospasm seen in patients with raynaud 's syndrome . platelets were isolated from 13 normal subjects , from 50 patients with vasospastic raynaud 's syndrome , and from 20 patients with obstructive raynaud 's syndrome and a2r levels measured . binding capacity as determined in femtomoles per milligram of protein ( fmol / mg of protein ) and affinity were measured by scatchard plot analysis . in a separate experiment normal human platelets were incubated with either buffer , normal serum , or serum from patients with spastic raynaud 's syndrome and a2r levels were measured . a2r levels in normal subjects averaged 112 + / - 18 fmol / mg ; in the patients with spastic raynaud 's syndrome , 191 + / - 14 fmol / mg , p less than 0.01 ; and in the patients with obstructive raynaud 's syndrome , 164 + / - 31 fmol / mg , p greater than 0.05 ( ns ) . of the patients with spastic raynaud 's syndrome , 26 % had values that were less than the mean value of the normal subjects ( 69 + / - 7 fmol / mg , p less than 0.05 ) . the a2r levels decreased after incubation with serum from patients who had spastic raynaud 's syndrome by 17.4 + / - 3.1 fmol / mg ( p less than 0.05 ) . these results indicate that most patients with vasospastic raynaud 's syndrome have increased platelet a2r levels , which may constitute a primary pathophysiologic abnormality underlying this condition . the presence of subnormal a2r levels in a portion of the patients and the finding of a decrease in measurable a2r levels after incubation in serum from patients with spastic raynaud 's syndrome suggests the possibility of receptor modulation as a mechanism for increased cellular receptor synthesis . 
a comparison of in situ and reversed saphenous vein grafts for infrainguinal reconstruction . despite the recent popularity of the in situ saphenous vein graft for infrainguinal arterial reconstruction , considerable doubt exists as to whether this approach offers any real advantage over conventional reversed vein grafts . therefore we have reviewed our experience with 675 infrainguinal vein grafts undertaken during the past 10 years . there have been no substantial modifications in the technique used for 535 reversed vein grafts over the 10-year period . during the past 3 years , 140 in situ vein grafts have been carried out with the leather valvulotome used to incise the venous valves . life-table analysis of 449 femoropopliteal reversed saphenous vein grafts demonstrated 1- and 3-year cumulative patency rates of 81 % and 73 % , respectively , and a 5-year patency rate of 63 % . seventy-five femoropopliteal in situ bypasses demonstrated a patency rate of 85 % at both 1- and 3-year intervals . cumulative patency rates for 86 femoroinfrapopliteal reversed saphenous vein grafts were 64 % and 62 % at 1 and 3 years , respectively . comparable patency rates for 65 infrapopliteal in situ saphenous vein grafts remained stable at 87 % for 3 years . fifteen of the in situ bypasses were anastomosed to vessels at the ankle or foot level , whereas none of the reversed bypasses was carried that far distally . this experience with both in situ and reversed techniques on one service by the same surgeons demonstrates a clear superiority of the in situ saphenous vein graft for infrapopliteal reconstruction at the 3-year interval . 
the role of subclavian-carotid transposition in surgery for supra-aortic occlusive disease . from 1977 through 1985 , 1043 patients underwent operation for supra-aortic occlusive disease . one hundred thirty-four of these patients ( 13 % ) with 146 lesions of the aortic arch branches ( innominate , 25 ; subclavian , 103 ; and multiple , 10 ) had one or more symptoms of subclavian steal ( 78 % ) , transient ischemic attacks ( 37 % ) , arm ischemia ( 37 % ) , and others ( 7 % ) . however , according to results of a critical prospective neurologic examination , the classic steal syndrome appeared in only 13 patients ( 10 % ) , vertebrobasilar insufficiency in 32 patients ( 24 % ) , and hemispheric symptoms in 48 patients ( 36 % ) . symptomatic and / or significant internal carotid occlusive disease was present , ipsilateral in 28 % and contralateral in 31 % of the patients . other supra-aortic vessels were involved in 49 % of the patients . during the same period 192 patients with supra-aortic occlusive disease were treated without surgical intervention for various reasons . fifty-five patients ( 27 % ) were completely asymptomatic except for the presence of reversed flow within the vertebral artery . the surgical approach in 138 operations was extrathoracic ( et ) in 71 % of patients ( innominate artery , 2 ; subclavian artery , 95 ; and arch syndrome , 1 ) and transthoracic ( tt ) in 29 % of patients ( innominate artery , 23 ; subclavian artery , 8 ; and arch syndrome , 9 ) . generally , bypass procedures were preferred , but for 72 ( 71 % ) of the subclavian lesions subclavian-carotid transposition ( sct ) was performed . three patients had been referred for complications of previous carotid-subclavian bypass . the grafts were removed and vertebral and arm circulation restored by sct . carotid end-arterectomy was performed simultaneously ( 20 % ) or staged ( 3 % ) in 8 % of the innominate procedures and 25 % of the subclavian reconstructive procedures . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
protection from atherosclerotic lesion formation by reduction of artery wall motion . we have studied mechanical factors that could determine how stenosis protects against distal atherosclerosis in cynomolgus monkeys fed an atherogenic diet . critical aortic stenosis was produced by coarctation of the thoracic aorta . after 3 months , coarcted monkeys had a mean aortic pressure gradient of 25 + / - 1 mm hg and a 76 % + / - 2 % lumen stenosis . aortic wall motion was measured by means of in vivo ultrasonic sonomicrometry . dynamic tracings of aortic pressure and diameter were recorded simultaneously at standard locations proximal and distal to the stenosis and at comparable sites in noncoarcted control animals . in the proximal aorta , mean blood pressure and pulse pressure were increased ( p less than 0.05 ) , but wall motion and intimal lesion area were not different from those determined in control monkeys . in the aorta distal to the coarct , mean blood pressure was no different from that in control animals but pulse pressure was diminished ; in addition , there was marked reduction of arterial wall motion ( p less than 0.001 ) . this was accompanied by a significant reduction of intimal plaque area ( p less than 0.05 ) and acid lipase activity ( p less than 0.001 ) . thus , inhibition of plaque formation in the distal aorta coincided with reduction of pulse pressure and aortic wall motion rather than with blood pressure or hypercholesterolemia . inhibition of arterial wall motion may account for the sparing effect often encountered in human arteries distal to stenosing atherosclerotic plaques . 
salvage of skeletal muscle with free radical scavengers . extensive skeletal muscle necrosis may occur after prolonged ischemia to the lower extremity , with serious consequences both locally and systemically . the extent of necrosis is a combination of cellular damage that occurs during both the period of ischemia and the period of reperfusion . the purpose of this study was to reduce the extent of reperfusion-induced muscle necrosis by therapeutic interventions administered only during the initial period of reperfusion . indeed , the pretreatment of patients who have an acute arterial occlusion is rarely possible and only interventions applicable to the reperfusion phase would be clinically relevant . by perfusing the isolated gracilis muscle in a controlled manner with reduced oxygen concentrations alone and in combination with free radical scavengers , we were able to reduce the extent of muscle necrosis . by means of controlled oxygen delivery alone , muscle necrosis was reduced from 87 % + / - 8 % in the control muscle to 67 % + / - 9 % ( p less than 0.05 ) in the treated muscle . the combination of reduced oxygen delivery and free radical scavengers reduced necrosis from 78 % + / - 8 % in the control muscle to 53 % + / - 7 % ( p less than 0.01 ) on the experimental side . we conclude that controlled oxygen delivery and free radical scavengers can reduce skeletal muscle necrosis occurring after prolonged normothermic ischemia . 
the effect of low molecular weight dextran on platelet deposition onto prosthetic materials . low molecular weight dextran ( lmd ) has recently been shown in a randomized , multicenter trial to improve early patency in difficult lower extremity vascular bypass . the question remained as to whether this effect was due to plasma volume expansion by lmd or to its effects on platelets and coagulation . to analyze this we have studied the effects of lmd on platelet-graft interactions using an ex vivo baboon shunt . indium 111-labeled autologous platelet deposition on expanded polytetrafluoroethylene and knitted dacron grafts was monitored at a flow rate of 25 ml / min for 21 / 2 hours . lmd was given by intravenous bolus at a dose of 5 ml / kg and was followed by a continuous infusion of 10 ml / hr . flow through the shunt was started after the initial dextran bolus . control studies were performed in a similar manner without dextran . an additional series of experiments was performed with a 5 to 10 ml / kg bolus of 5 % human serum albumin to analyze the contribution of plasma volume expansion to platelet deposition in this model . the results revealed a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) reduction in platelet deposition on both graft materials with the lmd infusion . no difference was seen between the control group and the albumin group . these studies provide direct in vivo evidence of the antiplatelet effect of lmd . 
human percutaneous and intraoperative laser thermal angioplasty : initial clinical results as an adjunct to balloon angioplasty . in this study , the safety and efficacy of percutaneous laser thermal angioplasty as an adjunct to balloon angioplasty were investigated in 13 patients with severe peripheral vascular disease . by means of a novel fiberoptic laser delivery system ( laserprobe ) in which argon laser energy is converted to heat in a metallic tip at the end of the fiberoptic fiber , improvement in the angiographic luminal diameter was noted in 14 of 15 femoropopliteal vessels ( 93 % ) by delivering 8 to 13 watts of continuous argon laser energy as the laserprobe was advanced through the lesion . initial clinical success ( indicated by relief of symptoms and increase in doppler index ) for the combined laser and balloon angioplasty procedures was obtained in 12 of 15 vessels ( 80 % ) , with inadequate balloon dilatation being the limiting factor in three patients . no significant complications of vessel perforation , dissection , pain , spasm , or embolization of debris occurred . of the 12 patients who had procedures with initial angiographic and clinical success , 10 ( 83 % ) were asymptomatic in the initial follow-up period of 1 to 9 months ( mean 6 months ) . thus , laser thermal angioplasty with a laserprobe is a safe and effective adjunct to peripheral balloon angioplasty . this technique has the potential to increase the initial success rate of angioplasty for lesions that are difficult or impossible to treat by conventional means . by removing most of the obstructing lesion , this technique may also reduce recurrent stenosis . 
dipyridamole thallium 201 scintigraphy to detect coronary artery disease before abdominal aortic surgery . dipyridamole thallium 201 scintigraphy ( dts ) was used to screen 116 consecutive patients referred for aortic reconstructive surgery for coronary artery disease ( cad ) . thallium redistribution was found to have the best statistical correlation with postoperative myocardial infarction ( mi ) . no mis occurred after aortic operations among 60 patients with normal scans compared with 8 of 31 patients with abnormal ones . the odds of a patient with abnormalities found by dts having a postoperative mi were 12 times greater than for those with a normal scan . no symptom or combination of symptoms of cad was as good as an abnormal dts in identifying patients at risk . the incidence of mi was 7.0 % for patients with symptomatic cad and 8.5 % for those who were asymptomatic . cardiac complications gradually declined as surgeons gained confidence in the use of dts , to the point where no postoperative mis occurred during the final year of the study . dts approaches the ideal preoperative test for cad in patients with peripheral vascular disease . the test does not require exercise , is minimally invasive , safe , and of sufficient sensitivity to detect myocardial ischemia in the absence of symptoms . furthermore , it is cost-effective ; only those patients with an abnormal scan and an imperative need for aortic surgical treatment need further cardiac evaluation . 
molecular biology yields new strategies for combating drug-resistant tumors [ news ] 
first anti-oncogene discovered ; linked to the development of retinoblastoma [ news ] 
leads from the mmwr . influenza activity in civilian and military populations and key points for use of influenza vaccines . 
leads from the mmwr . smoking prevalence and cessation in selected states , 1981-1983 and 1985--the behavioral risk factor surveys . 
leads from the mmwr . dengue in the americas , 1985. 
the treatment of streptococcal pharyngitis [ letter ] 
transferase-deficiency galactosemia and the duarte variant [ letter ] 
severe diarrhea in pneumococcal bacteremia : croupous colitis [ letter ] 
the predictive power of the polygraph : the lies lie detectors tell [ letter ] 
the safety of nuclear power plants in the united states [ letter ] 
before chernobyl : hanford , savannah river , and rocky flats [ letter ] 
changing gloves between vaginal and rectal examination : an additional reason [ letter ] 
the risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal women who have used estrogen replacement therapy [ published erratum appears in jama 1987 may 8 ; 257 ( 18 ) : 2438 ] we studied the association between estrogen replacement therapy ( ert ) and the risk of breast cancer as part of the cancer and steroid hormone study . all subjects in the analysis were postmenopausal women enrolled from eight geographic areas . women 25 to 54 years old with newly diagnosed breast cancer were identified through population-based tumor registries and diagnosed between dec 1 , 1980 , and dec 31 , 1982. controls were selected from the same eight geographic areas by the random digit dialing of residential telephone numbers . analyses included 1369 cases and 1645 controls . among women with bilateral oophorectomy , the relative risk of breast cancer for women who had ever used ert was 1.3 , compared with women who had never used ert . among women who had undergone hysterectomy but who still had at least one ovary , the relative risk was 1.1 ; among women who reported a natural menopause , the relative risk was 0.8 . overall , the risk of breast cancer did not appear to increase appreciably with increasing ert duration or latency , even for durations and latencies of 20 years or longer . 
the inevitable failure of current cost-containment strategies . why they can provide only temporary relief . current strategies for controlling hospital costs have focused primarily on eliminating care that is presumed to be of no medical value . these efforts have neglected the central fact that eliminating such care reduces current expenditures , but has little or no influence on three key factors responsible for the upward trend in real costs--population growth , rising input prices ( " the hospital market basket " ) , and technologic innovation and diffusion . aging of the population and the rising costs of malpractice insurance have received undue attention ; together they can account for only three tenths of a percentage point in the upward trend . gradual elimination of presumably useless care , perhaps as much as 30 % of inpatient-days , can save many billions of dollars , but can only offset for a few years the forces causing costs to rise in us community hospitals . indeed , in 1984 , the reduction in patient days and resultant slowing in the real rate of rise to 2.1 % appear simply to have concealed an underlying real rate of increase that was close to 7 % . after all unnecessary days have been eliminated , the underlying rate of increase will reemerge unless limitations are placed on technologic innovation or beneficial services are rationed . 
asymptomatic opacity of the left hemithorax in an adult . 
cost containment : how is it to be achieved ? [ editorial ] 
cardiologists send up a trial balloon in new efforts to relieve heart failure [ news ] 
more light shed on structure and destruction of plaque as laser angioplasty research heats up [ news ] 
leads from the mmwr . tularemia--new jersey . 
hepatitis b virus transmission between heterosexuals [ letter ] 
fatal reactivation of chronic hepatitis b [ letter ] 
the safety of the hepatitis b vaccine [ letter ] 
alcohol and immune defense [ letter ] 
detection of breast cancer [ letter ] 
metastatic basal cell carcinoma in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-related complex . basal cell carcinoma is a common neoplasm that rarely metastasizes . metastatic basal cell carcinoma has been associated with a deficiency of cellular immunity . patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , at greater risk for specific neoplasms , may be at greater risk for basal cell carcinoma and subsequent metastasis . we report a case of metastatic basal cell carcinoma in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-related complex . 
body weight and longevity . a reassessment . conflicting results have been reported concerning the association between body weight and longevity . the shape of the curve relating weight to all-cause mortality has been variously described as linear , j-shaped , and even u-shaped . to assess the validity of the evidence for optimal weight recommendations , we examined the 25 major prospective studies on the subject . each study had at least one of three major biases : failure to control for cigarette smoking , inappropriate control of biologic effects of obesity , such as hypertension and hyperglycemia , and failure to control for weight loss due to subclinical disease . the presence of these biases leads to a systematic underestimate of the impact of obesity on premature mortality . although these biases preclude a valid assessment of optimal weight from existing data , available evidence suggests that minimum mortality occurs at relative weights at least 10 % below the us average . 
treatment of primary and secondary syphilis : defining failure at three- and six-month follow-up [ editorial ] 
steroids in sports : after four decades , time to return these genies to bottle ? [ news ] 
physician-competitor 's advice to colleagues : steroid users respond to education , rehabilitation [ news ] 
leads from the mmwr . update : acquired immunodeficiency syndrome--united states . 
leads from the mmwr . dengue hemorrhagic fever--puerto rico . 
' light up and make my day ' [ letter ] 
urine mutagenicity as a measure of exposure to tar [ letter ] 
the trauma score as a triage tool [ letter ] 
nocturnal ulcer pain relief from tricyclic antidepressants [ letter ] 
the price of alcohol [ letter ] 
immunoglobulin deficiency and recurrent upper respiratory tract infections [ letter ] 
symmetrical purpura does n't mirror child abuse [ letter ] 
criteria for the diagnosis of malnutrition [ letter ] 
changing prescribing practices through individual continuing education [ letter ] 
recent trends in cesarean birth and trial of labor rates in the united states . a national probability survey was conducted to evaluate changes since 1979 in cesarean delivery and trial of labor rates after a previous cesarean delivery . questionnaires were mailed to 538 hospitals and 87 % responded . in 1979 , of women with a prior cesarean birth 2.1 % ( + / - 0.3 % ) were given a trial of labor . by 1984 , the rate increased fourfold to 8.0 % ( + / - 0.7 % ) . trials of labor increased dramatically with the size of the delivery service . the rates ranged from 2 % in smaller hospitals to 25 % in larger hospitals . more than 50 % of the trials of labor were successful . however , the fraction of hospitals with no trials of labor remains high ( 54 % ) . cesarean birth rates increased from 14.1 % ( + / - 0.1 % ) in 1979 to 19.0 % ( + / - 0.2 ) in 1984. hospitals with fewer births had a larger variation in cesarean birth rates ; the fifth and 95th percentiles were 5 % and 33 % , respectively , for hospitals with fewer than 500 deliveries per year , and 14 % and 31 % for hospitals with 1000 deliveries or more per year . fetal distress accounted for a larger proportion of primary cesarean deliveries in 1984 ( 21 % ) compared with 1979 ( 14 % ) . the observed increase in the rate of trial of labor does not seem to be large enough to stem the rising cesarean delivery rate . this survey and other national surveys provide no evidence that the cesarean delivery rates are leveling off or decreasing . 
trends in surgical revascularization for renal artery disease . ten years ' experience . we reviewed our experience with surgical revascularization ( sr ) for renal artery disease ( rad ) in 361 patients from 1975 through 1984 to illustrate the evolving role of sr in the management of these patients . the time intervals selected for comparison were 1975 through 1980 ( n = 174 ) and 1981 through 1984 ( n = 187 ) . since 1981 , in patients with atherosclerosis , sr has been done more often in elderly patients ( 30 % vs 10.4 % ) , in patients with generalized atherosclerosis ( 87 % vs 73 % ) , and for the sole purpose of preserving renal function ( 36 % vs 14 % ) . since 1981 , fewer patients with atherosclerosis have undergone sr solely to treat renovascular hypertension ( 26 % vs 41 % ) . since 1981 , in patients with fibrous dysplasia , sr has been done in more patients with branch renal artery disease ( 70 % vs 28 % ) . these trends in the performance of sr have been due to the advent of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty as effective therapy for certain patients , improved results of sr in elderly patients with atherosclerosis , an enhanced appreciation of advanced atherosclerotic rad as a correctable cause of renal failure , and the development of more effective techniques for sr in patients with severe aortic atherosclerosis and branch rad . the overall clinical results of sr remain excellent in properly selected patients with rad . 
is bowen 's disease a predictor for the development of internal malignancy ? a methodological critique of the literature . a critical review was performed to assess studies about bowen 's disease as a cutaneous predictor of the development of internal malignancy . in six of seven published cohort studies , the authors concluded that there was an association between bowen 's disease and internal malignancy . three major methodological deficiencies occurred in these studies : lack of an adequate comparison group ; inclusion of persons who already had internal malignancy when bowen 's disease was diagnosed ; and lack of life-table analysis to describe and to compare cancer incidence rates over time . though an association between bowen 's disease and internal malignancy may be pathophysiologically plausible and may eventually be demonstrated , we conclude that published reports do not demonstrate that persons with bowen 's disease have an increased risk to develop internal malignancy . 
rupture of the renal artery nine days after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty . 
psychiatric megatrends and the elderly [ editorial ] 
therapeutic substitution--usurpation of the physician 's prerogative [ editorial ] 
influenza surveillance : a perpetual campaign for elusive victories [ news ] 
pressure ulcers preventable , say many clinicians [ news ] 
leads from the mmwr . infant mortality among black americans . 
hypocalcemia in rhabdomyolysis [ letter ] [ published erratum appears in jama 1987 oct 9 ; 258 ( 14 ) : 1894 ] 
computer-aided design and manufacture of prostheses is still experimental [ letter ] 
chest pain in users of video display terminals [ letter ] 
single-unit blood transfusion : doubtful dogma defeated [ letter ] 
a formula for calculating the dosages of drugs in emergencies [ letter ] 
risk factors for aids among haitians residing in the united states . evidence of heterosexual transmission . the collaborative study group of aids in haitian-americans . in a study of haitians in miami and new york , creole-speaking interviewers questioned 55 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) ( 45 men and ten women ) and 242 control-persons ( 164 men and 78 women ) . one male patient was homosexual , and one female patient had received blood within five years . no one admitted to intravenous drug use , hemophilia , or sexual contact with aids patients . male aids patients were significantly more likely than control-men to have entered the united states after 1977 and to have had gonorrhea , syphilis , and sexual contact with female prostitutes . female aids patients were more likely to have voodoo-priest friends and to have been offered money for sex . acquired immunodeficiency syndrome was probably contracted through sexual contact with infected heterosexuals . 
survival analysis of patients undergoing dialysis . we analyzed the five-year survival of 4661 patients with end-stage renal disease whose first dialysis occurred in 1977. the analysis incorporated characteristics of patients and dialysis institutions . results showed that mortality was positively correlated with patient age , initial conditions leading to renal failure , being male and white , open staffing , and the number of staff physicians . in addition , lower death rates were observed for patients treated in larger dialysis units and units that had been long-term reusers of dialyzers . patients treated in for-profit and not-for-profit units appeared to have the same mortality , although patients treated in freestanding units had lower mortality . the direction of causation was not always clear in these results . 
the end-stage renal disease program : here are some of the data [ editorial ] 
indirect calorimetry : comparison of hood and mask systems for measuring resting energy expenditure in healthy volunteers . controversy exists as to the validity and reliability of hood and mask systems in measuring indirect calorimetry . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the accuracy and reproducibility of repeat measurements of resting energy expenditure ( ree ) in volunteers . paired ree measurements were performed in 23 subjects after an overnight fast using hood and mask systems . lean body mass was calculated from four skinfold measurements and body weight determinations . data were normalized to body weight and lean body mass and were calculated as percent predicted ree in paired tests taken within 5 minutes on the same subject . no significant difference in mean ree was noted between hood and mask systems . linear regression analysis showed a strong positive correlation ( r = 0.91 , p less than 0.001 ) between hood and mask measurements of ree . 
exogenous lipid clearance in compensated liver cirrhosis . the tolerance to exogenous fats has been evaluated in patients with liver cirrhosis . a three-stage lipid clearance test with continuous infusion ( 3 hr ) of a triglyceride emulsion , intralipid , was performed on 10 patients with well compensated liver cirrhosis and 10 normolipidemic volunteers . during the infusion , blood samples were collected for the measurement of particulate triglycerides ( tg ) by nephelometry ; samples were also collected for total tg , free fatty acids ( ffa ) and free tryptophan ( trp ) determinations . plasma endogenous triglycerides were calculated as the total minus exogenous , particulate , tg . the fractional removal rate ( k2 ) and the maximal clearing capacity ( k1 ) for exogenous tg were lower in patients than in controls , though a significant difference ( p less than 0.05 ) was found only for k1 . endogenous tg and ffa showed a comparable rise in patients and controls during intralipid infusion . a significant increase in free trp was noted in cirrhotics upon maximal infusion rate . it is concluded that : in patients with well compensated liver cirrhosis the maximal clearing capacity ( k1 ) for exogenous tg is impaired . nonetheless , moderate amounts of fat may be removed at a normal rate from the bloodstream ; a normal synthesis rate of exogenous tg may be maintained even in a severely damaged liver ; considering the possible role of free trp in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy ( he ) , the use of large amounts of lipids should be discouraged in patients with decompensated liver cirrhosis , or even avoided in those with impending or overt he . 
transperitoneal absorption of intralipid in rats : total serum fatty acids and triglyceride after absorption . intralipid 20 % was injected percutaneously into the peritoneum of 58 female rats . the rats were divided into seven groups ( with an additional control group of 35 rats ) . to measure transperitoneal absorption , we determined the serum fatty acid and triglyceride concentrations at 3-hr intervals for 24 hr , and found a considerable increase in all of the levels measured , with a maximum at about 6 hr . the serum triglyceride levels never rose above a mean value of 200 mg / 100 ml . a second and smaller rise was seen after 15 hr , declining again to the initial values . the relative proportions of the different fatty acids changed , but not drastically . 
biochemical and histopathological findings after a long-term intraperitoneal fat infusion . an experimental study in rats . the object of this work was to see the possible side effects that a long-term intraperitoneal ( ip ) fat infusion would have . we used 56 female wistar rats weighing 250 g , divided into a control group ( cg ) of eight and three groups of 16 in each one . these three groups were administered a 20 % intralipid infusion in a daily amount of 4 g / kg over 5 , 10 , and 15 days , respectively ( groups i , ii , and iii ) intraperitoneally . twenty-four hr after the last infusion the animals were anesthetized and after having drawn 3 ml of blood , 5 % glutaraldehyde ( gth ) was instilled in situ and optical and electron microscopic specimens were taken of the lung , liver , right diaphragm , and parietal peritoneum . the results show a decrease in triglyceride ( tg ) rate 24 hr after the last infusion in each group , but blood glucose , cholesterol , bilirubin , glucose oxidase test ( got ) , glutamic pyruvic transaminase ( gpt ) , nor other serum parameters varied . no alterations were noticed in the lung or liver under optical or electron microscopes in the groups than had under gone treatment , except for an increase in circulating macrophages with fat in the lung . in the diaphragm we observed hyperplasia in the serous layer of the peritoneum and an increase in fat in the lymphatic channels of the right diaphragm . the possibility of using ip infusions in order to study parenteral nutrition solutions was put forward as well as their possible clinical use in alternative nutrition techniques on both a short-term and long-term basis . 
influences of an infusion of lipid emulsion on phagocytotic activity of cultured kupffer 's cells in septic rats . an experimental study was undertaken to study the influences of an infusion of lipid emulsion on phagocytosis of kupffer 's cells in septic rats . sepsis was induced in 13 rats by ligating the cecum . five of them received glucose as the sole nonprotein calorie ( septic-glucose group ) , four of the rats received 25 % of the nonprotein calorie with lipid emulsion , intralipid ( septic-lipid group ) , and the remaining four rats did not receive any intravenous solution and were allowed access to water ( septic-fasted group ) . another four rats which received neither intravenous solution nor ligation of the cecum served as the control group . the intravenous infusion was carried out for 72 hr . the phagocytotic activity of kupffer 's cells was determined by the ability to engulf latex particles with a size of 1.09 micron , in vitro . the phagocytotic activity was enhanced by the presence of sepsis but it was inhibited by starvation . the difference in the phagocytotic activity between the septic-glucose group and the septic-lipid group was not significant . these results suggest that , insofar as an in vitro study is concerned , a 72-hr infusion of lipid emulsion at a rate of 25 % of the total nonprotein calorie does not influence the phagocytotic activity of cultured kupffer 's cell obtained from septic rats . 
estimating social-psychological effects in decisions to drink and drive : a factorial survey approach . although there has been considerable research on both habitual drinking drivers and aggregate-level trends in automobile fatalities as a result of legal countermeasures to deter drinking drivers , little is known about the occasional driver who drinks away from home . the present study uses a factorial survey design to gather individual-level data to examine situational dimensions that influence 95 college students ' responses to opportunities to drink and drive . implications from the study are that the level of alcohol impairment , distance to be driven , weather conditions , time of day and existence of driving alternatives have significant effects on students ' intentions to drink and drive . other significant variables include the number of police roadblocks , familiarity with roads , the way in which incidents of drunken driving are reported in the community and the number of passengers depending on the driver for transportation . 
the onset of drinking and intoxication among university students . to study the effect of the onset of drinking on subsequent alcohol use , self-administered questionnaires were completed by 856 unmarried undergraduate students from two universities in the southeastern region of the united states . the present study focuses on the 524 ( 61.2 % ) students who reported using alcohol at least occasionally . in this subsample , the strongest predictors of the extent of undergraduate intoxication are the frequency of intoxication at the onset of drinking and age at the onset . the more often an individual drinks to intoxication and the younger that individual begins to drink , the more frequently he or she will become intoxicated when a university student . racial differences in the extent of undergraduate intoxication were also found . white students were markedly more prone to intoxication than were black students . sex differences , although not statistically significant , showed a tendency for drunkenness among male undergraduates to exceed that among female undergraduates . the implications of the findings for intervention and prevention strategies are discussed . 
comparative effectiveness of three types of spouse involvement in outpatient behavioral alcoholism treatment . treatment was provided to 53 alcoholics and their spouses in one of three outpatient behavioral treatment conditions : minimal spouse involvement ( msi ) ( n = 21 ) , alcohol-focused spouse involvement ( afsi ) ( n = 13 ) or alcohol-focused spouse involvement plus behavioral marital therapy ( abmt ) ( n = 19 ) . subjects were followed for 6 months after treatment . all subjects markedly decreased their drinking and reported increased life satisfaction . abmt subjects were more compliant than afsi subjects with conjoint homework assignments , decreased their drinking more quickly during treatment , relapsed more slowly after treatment and maintained marital satisfaction better . abmt subjects were more likely than msi subjects to stay in treatment and maintained their marital satisfaction better after treatment . clinical and theoretical significance of the findings are discussed . 
pretreatment mmpi profiles of a.a. members and nonmembers . historically , researchers in alcoholism have focused a large amount of energy on the search for " the alcoholic personality . " from this effort to identify a particular type of personality prone to the development of alcoholism arose the idea that alcoholics are not a homogeneous group . subsequently , a number of authors reported the existence of alcoholic subtypes . recently , research has begun to examine the relationship of personality to treatment outcome . in particular , alcoholics anonymous ( a.a. ) has come under greater scrutiny since high success rates have been ascribed to a.a. attendance . moreover , the personality characteristics of a.a. members have been compared to alcoholics not attending a.a. improving on earlier studies , the present research compared the pretreatment minnesota multiphasic personality inventory ( mmpi ) profiles of alcoholics who later elected to attend a.a. and those who did not attend . additionally , alcoholics attending a.a. were sorted by drinking outcome and the mmpi profiles of sober and drinking a.a. members were contrasted . although no personality differences emerged between a.a. attenders and nonmembers , there were several trends within the a.a. attending group , suggesting that successful a.a. members were less depressed , less anxious and less socially isolated than unsuccessfull a.a. members . 
the effect of menstrual cycle on blood alcohol levels and behavior . to determine whether the behavioral effects of alcohol were altered by menstrual cycle phase , 10 women between the ages of 21 and 24 who reported regular menstrual cycles of 28-31 days participated in three experimental sessions , the dates of which coincided with the flow , midcycle and premenstrual phases of their cycles . in each session , the effects of alcohol ( .65 g / kg ) were measured on memory for words , standing steadiness , coding vigilance and blood alcohol level ( bal ) . the following measures were obtained in each of three testing rounds : baseline , the ascending limb of the bal curve and the descending limb of the bal curve . peak bals of 83 + / - 2 mg / d1 were obtained . on coding vigilance , the subjects were observed to perform better during the flow phase of their cycle than they did in either the midcycle or premenstrual phase . no significant phase by alcohol effects were obtained , however . these results suggest that neither the pharmacokinetics of alcohol nor certain behaviors affected by alcohol were affected by menstrual cycle phase . these results are generally consistent with previous research , and they question the logic of excluding women subjects from studies on the effects of alcohol on behavior , at least for the variables used in this study . 
similarities in self-depictions of female alcoholics and psychiatric outpatients : examination of eysenck 's dimension of emotionality in women . the minnesota multiphasic personality inventory ( mmpi ) item response rates of samples of female alcoholics and of nonsubstance-abusing female psychiatric outpatients were compared with those of three samples of putative psychiatric normals--female adults , medical outpatients and college students--to find items to which the two psychiatric patient samples would respond similarly to each other , but differently from normals . a total of 25 items were located that satisfied a stringent set of selection criteria . the responses of additional samples of alcoholics , psychiatric outpatients and putative normals to these 25 items remained impressively large on cross-validation . a principal factors analysis of the 25 x 25 item intercorrelation matrix yielded four factors that were labeled agitated depression , familial dissatisfaction , hypersensitivity and irreligiosity . 
expectations for reinforcement from alcohol use in a clinical sample . to examine differences in expectations for reinforcement from alcohol use between a clinical sample of adult alcoholics and general medical controls , subjects were administered the alcohol expectancy questionnaire and were interviewed in a structured format assessing levels of alcohol intake . alcoholic inpatients were found to expect more global positive changes , social assertiveness , social and physical pleasure and tension reduction from alcohol than did general medical controls . the findings were highly consistent with the results of other recent research examining the relation of alcohol expectancies to drinking patterns in alcoholics . 
birth order effects in second-generation alcoholics . the effects of birth-order position ( first- , middle- and last-born ) in intact families with three children on the psychopathology scores of second-generation alcoholics were examined by administering the mmpi to 90 alcoholic sons of alcoholic parents . analyses of variance ( anovas ) applied to the individual mmpi scale scores revealed a consistent pattern of results : first borns evidenced significantly less exaggerated psychopathology scores than both groups of later borns . most of the extreme scale scores obtained within this population of alcoholics were obtained from the later borns . implications for previous generalizations about the alcoholic children of alcoholic parents are discussed . 
perceptual field dependency : predisposing trait or consequence of alcoholism ? perceptual field dependency often has been reported in alcoholics and frequently implicated as a predisposing trait in alcoholism . comparing sons of alcoholics who are at high risk for alcoholism to sons of depressed fathers and control fathers ( nonalcoholics without history of depression ) revealed , however , no differences on the rod and frame test . these results do not support the hypothesis that field dependency is a risk factor in alcoholism . 
dui offenders presenting with positive blood alcohol levels at presentencing evaluation . breathalyzer tests were administered to 500 dui offenders on the day that they arrived for their scheduled presentencing psychosocial evaluations . positive blood alcohol levels were found in 132 ( 26.4 % ) of the offenders . the persons with positive blood alcohol levels were more likely to be diagnosed as having alcoholism disorders , had higher blood alcohol levels at the times of their arrests , complained of more severe symptoms attributable to excessive alcohol use and drank more than those who did not have positive blood alcohol levels . 
the cardiovascular surgeon and the liver . 
anomalous origin of left coronary artery from pulmonary artery . ligation versus establishment of a two coronary artery system . between 1959 and 1985 , 24 patients ( mean age 38 months , range 15 days to 13 years ) with anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery as an isolated lesion were treated surgically at children 's hospital , boston . in 11 cases a left coronary-to-aortic tunnel was created with a pulmonary artery baffle ( takeuchi ) with no deaths either early or late over a mean follow-up period of 18 1 / 2 months . late complications of this procedure include moderate aortic regurgitation ( one ) , supravalvular pulmonary stenosis ( two-one required a second operation ) , obstructed baffle ( one-asymptomatic ) . in 11 cases of coronary ligation or ostial closure there was a 27 % early mortality and a 25 % late mortality over a mean follow-up period of 10 1 / 2 years . late complications include residual shunt ( three-two required a second operation ) , severe mitral regurgitation ( one ) , and recurrence of angina ( one ) . two patients had other procedures . both early and late deaths occurred in the group who had congestive heart failure and who had simple ligation . five infants who had profoundly depressed ventricular function and moderate to severe mitral regurgitation , together with widespread q waves on electrocardiogram , showed a dramatic improvement in ventricular function after the takeuchi procedure . the takeuchi procedure is a simple and effective means of establishing a two coronary artery system in the child with anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery . this procedure is particularly recommended over coronary ligation in patients in congestive heart failure . 
giant cervical herniation of an apical pulmonary bulla . a 60-year-old woman had a giant air cyst in the right side of the neck , which arose from the apex of the right lung . we are unable to find a similar case report in literature . 
colon bypass from the oral cavity . a young man had had caustic burns of the pharynx , larynx , esophagus , and stomach 4 years previously . total gastrectomy had been performed , and nutrition was maintained through a jejunostomy feeding tube . alimentary continuity was restored with an isolated colon segment , brought substernally to the oral cavity , with excellent results . 
restoration of atrioventricular conduction after surgical removal of a hydatid cyst of the interventricular septum . 
association of retroesophageal right subclavian arteries with thoracic ducts terminating in the right venous angle [ letter ] 
a potential hazard of ventilation during early separation from total cardiopulmonary bypass [ letter ] 
clinical experience with stentless pericardial aortic monopatch for aortic valve replacement . a stentless pericardial aortic monopatch was used in 60 consecutive patients undergoing aortic valve replacement . the monopatch is constructed of a sheet of glutaraldehyde-treated bovine pericardium , tailored and shaped to fit the aortic anulus , and is sutured in place without a stent or sewing ring . the valve area is effectively preserved by this method . results indicate that this technique is simple , inexpensive , and applicable to all cases of aortic valve disease . it does not require anticoagulation and may allow for annular growth when used in children . this technique is particularly suitable for patients with infective endocarditis because the amount of foreign material is minimized . 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for postoperative cardiac support in children . prolonged circulatory support for cardiac failure has been increasingly successful in adults but has had very limited use in children . from january 1982 to december 1985 , 13 children with postoperative cardiac failure refractory to conventional therapy were treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . ages ranged from 9 days to 17.6 years ( mean = 3.8 years ) ; weights ranged from 2.8 to 50 kg ( mean = 13.8 kg ) . seven patients had obstructive lesions of the right ventricle , such as pulmonary stenosis and tetralogy ; the other patients had tricuspid atresia , truncus arteriosus , complete transposition , total anomalous pulmonary venous connection , pericardial tamponade , and a drug reaction after heart transplantation . one patient ( nonsurvivor ) , who could not be separated from cardiopulmonary bypass , required extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in the operating room . in the remaining 12 , the interval between operation and the start of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ranged from 9 to 50 hours ( mean = 22.2 hours ) . four patients were cannulated through the groin and nine through the chest . peak flows ranged from 1.05 to 2.74 l / min / m2 ( mean 1.92 l / min / m2 ) . duration of oxygenator support ranged from 12 hours to 9 days ( mean = 3.4 days ) . seven patients required reexploration for bleeding . renal insufficiency developed in five patients , four of whom underwent hemodialysis or ultrafiltration during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . two patients had evidence of clots in the oxygenator circuit . seven patients were weaned from extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . failure to wean from the oxygenator was related to neurologic sequelae of prolonged hypotension before institution of oxygenation in three patients . mediastinitis developed in three of the seven patients who were weaned . one of these three died in the hospital 74 days after being weaned from the oxygenator . there has been one late death 6 months after oxygenator support was withdrawn . at most recent examination , five children were well , with normal cardiac function 7 months to 4.3 years postoperatively ( mean = 32 months ) . this series suggests that profound cardiac insufficiency in children after cardiac operations can be successfully managed with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation with excellent functional recovery , although major complications are common in this critically ill group of patients . 
factors that exaggerate the deleterious effects of pulmonary insufficiency on the right ventricle after tetralogy repair . surgical implications . postoperative cardiac catheterization data of 74 patients with pulmonary insufficiency after tetralogy repair were analyzed . two groups were identified : group a , 26 patients with normal right ventricular function ( ejection fraction 95 % + / - 5.5 % , end-systolic volume 110 % + / - 17 % of predicted normal ) and group b , 48 patients with right ventricular dysfunction ( ejection fraction 80 % + / - 18 % [ p less than 0.001 ] , and end-systolic volume 218 % + / - 75 % of predicted normal [ p less than 0.001 ] ) . there was no significant difference between the two groups with respect to frequency of previous palliative procedures , age at operative repair , operative techniques , methods of myocardial protection , and follow-up period . right ventricular dysfunction in group b was associated with significant distal pulmonary stenosis ( right ventricle-pulmonary artery pressure gradient 28 + / - 13 torr in group a versus 55 + / - 20 torr in group b , p less than 0.001 ) , moderate pulmonary regurgitation ( regurgitant fraction 18 % + / - 11 % in group a versus 32 % + / - 10 % in group b , p less than 0.001 ) , and large transannular outflow patch ( ratio of patch diameter to descending aorta diameter 1.31 + / - 0.16 in group a versus 2.50 + / - 0.28 in group b , p less than 0.001 ) . pulmonary valve insertion was performed in 42 patients in group b . eighteen had subsequent cardiac catheterization . right ventricular function recovered completely ( end-systolic volume 122 % + / - 24 % , and ejection fraction 92 % + / - 7 % of predicted ) in five of six patients ( 83 % ) who had valve insertion within the first 2 years after tetralogy repair . in contrast , right ventricular function remained abnormal in all 12 patients who had valve insertion later than 2 years after tetralogy repair ( p less than 0.05 ) . patients with residual pulmonary stenosis and / or a large transannular outflow patch are at risk for the development of right ventricular dysfunction from pulmonary insufficiency after tetralogy repair . early correction of these residual lesions and control of pulmonary insufficiency may prevent long-term deterioration in right ventricular function . 
relative contributions of the anterior and posterior mitral chordae tendineae to canine global left ventricular systolic function [ published erratum appears in j thorac cardiovasc surg 1987 may ; 93 ( 5 ) : 793 ] the relative importance of the anterior and posterior mitral chordae tendineae to global left ventricular performance , independent of load , was determined by sequentially measuring the slope of the left ventricular peak isovolumetric pressure-volume relation in a canine model with the chordae of both , either , and neither mitral leaflet ( s ) intact . the order in which the chordae were severed was randomly assigned . compared to baseline values ( both chordae intact ) , severing the chordae of the anterior leaflet ( posterior leaflet chordae intact ) reduced the slope of the pressure-volume relation by 27 % ( p = 0.005 ) in 10 dogs ; the slope decreased by an additional 16 % ( p = 0.017 ) when the posterior chordae were subsequently severed in this group . in 10 dogs randomized to the reverse order , the slope of the pressure-volume relation decreased by 17 % ( p = 0.021 ) after the posterior chordae were severed ( anterior leaflet chordae intact ) ; an additional 24 % decrease in the slope ( p = 0.001 ) occurred when the chordae of the anterior leaflet were subsequently severed in this group . the chordae of the anterior and posterior mitral leaflets have an additive , but statistically indistinguishable ( p = 0.140 ) , influence upon global left ventricular systolic performance ; however , the contribution of the anterior chordae tends to be more important . thus preservation of the anterior mitral leaflet and its chordal attachments to the papillary muscles during mitral valve replacement may have an equal or greater impact upon postoperative left ventricular function than mitral valve replacement with preservation of the posterior chordae ; however , severing either the anterior or posterior chordae appears to be detrimental . 
patency of internal mammary artery grafts in no-flow situations . we report two cases in which an internal mammary artery graft was found to be nonfunctional in the early postoperative period , but repeat catheterization at 6 months revealed the graft to be patent . these two cases substantiate that closure of an internal mammary artery graft may be reversible . 
experience with st . jude medical valve prosthesis in children . a word of caution regarding right-sided placement . thirty-six children aged 6 months to 18 years , underwent insertion of 37 st . jude medical cardiac prostheses . in 20 , the valve was placed in the aortic or mitral position , and in 16 in the pulmonary or tricuspid position . there was one ( 2.8 % ) hospital death . all patients received maintenance doses of salicylates and dipyridamole after the operation . follow-up data are available for all patients for 12 to 24 postoperative months . there was no incidence of valve dysfunction or thromboembolic complication in any of the 20 patients with valves in the systemic ( left ) side of the circulation , and all manifested improvement in their functional class . in contrast , six ( 37 % ) of the 16 patients with valves in the pulmonary ( right ) side of the circulation developed dysfunction of the prosthesis 1 to 6 months after insertion . prosthesis failure was associated with fibrous tissue growing into the struts , leading to leaflet immobilization . at 2 years , the actuarial functional life was 100 % for mitral and aortic valves and 70 % for pulmonary and tricuspid valves . the data illustrate the excellent hemodynamic function of the st . jude medical valve in children . the absence of thromboembolic complications warrant continued implantation of the prosthesis in the left side without warfarin anticoagulation therapy , but the high incidence of valve dysfunction in the pulmonary position does not justify its continued use in the right side . 
prosthetic heart valve replacement in children . results and follow-up of 273 patients . we report the results and long-term follow up in 273 children ( aged 2 to 16 years ) who underwent prosthetic valve replacement . mechanical valves ( mostly starr-edwards ) were used in almost all , and in 62 children more than one valve was replaced . operative mortality was 4.7 % . actuarial survival curves ( including hospital mortality ) indicate a 86 % survival rate at 5 years and 75 % at 10 years . for isolated mitral valve prostheses ( the largest subgroup ) , the figures are 87 % at 5 years and 82 % at 10 and 15 years . the main complication was thromboembolism , which occurred at a linearized rate of 2.7 per 100 patient-years . actuarial curves indicate that 88 % of patients are embolus free at 5 years , and 77 % at 10 years . no patient with aortic valve replacement only had an embolism . five of eight tricuspid prostheses thrombosed . patients given aspirin and dipyridamole only did not have a higher rate of thromboembolic events than those given warfarin . there were five cases of endocarditis ( two fatal ) and four of dehiscence . no patient so far has needed replacement of a prosthesis because of somatic growth . thus valve replacement can be performed with low mortality in children , and with satisfactory long-term survival . thromboembolism remains a significant problem , although it appears to be less common than in adults . in this study , treatment with antiplatelet drugs only did not carry a higher rate of thromboembolic events than did treatment with warfarin . 
effects of age on cell size and ion uptake in canine cortical bone . in cortical bone from dogs of various ages , the uptakes of two bone-seeking isotopes , 85sr and 99mtc-methylene diphosphonate ( mdp ) , were compared with that of the intracellular cation 42k by using the volume of distribution ( vd ) technique . the rate of bone remodeling and the osteocyte volume were estimated by morphometric techniques . the percentage cell volume was related to the vd of 42k ( r = 0.83 ; p less than 0.001 ) and decreased with increasing age . the decline in the vd of 85sr and 99mtc-mdp with aging was related to the decrease in bone formation ( r = 0.90 ; p less than 0.001 ) . on a logarithmic plot , the cell volume and the vd of 42k had a linear relationship with the rate of new bone formation , the vd of 85sr , and the vd of 99mtc-mdp . our results demonstrate that , with increasing age in dogs , the bone formation rate and cell size decrease , as does the uptake of 42k , 99mtc-mdp , and 85sr . 
surgical pathology of the mitral valve : a study of 712 cases spanning 21 years . the gross surgical pathologic features of the mitral valve were reviewed in 712 patients who had undergone mitral valve replacement at our institution during 1965 , 1970 , 1975 , 1980 , and 1985. among the 452 cases of mitral stenosis , either with or without mitral insufficiency , 99 % were attributable to postinflammatory disease and 1 % were related to congenital mitral stenosis . among the 260 cases of pure mitral regurgitation , the two most common causes were a floppy valve ( 38 % ) and postinflammatory disease ( 31 % ) . moreover , a floppy valve was observed in 73 % of the 59 examples of chordal rupture and in 38 % of the 16 cases of infective endocarditis . women accounted for 73 % of the 452 cases of mitral stenosis and for 72 % of the 530 cases of postinflammatory disease . in contrast , men accounted for 58 % of the 260 cases of pure mitral regurgitation , including 76 % of the floppy valves and 69 % of the infected valves . during the 21 years spanned by the study , the relative frequency of postinflammatory mitral insufficiency progressively decreased , whereas that of floppy mitral valves increased . it is unclear whether aging , heredity , environmental factors , changes in the frequency of acute rheumatic fever , or changes in patient referral practices may account for this observation . 
evaluation of acute chest pain syndromes by two-dimensional echocardiography : its potential application in the selection of patients for acute reperfusion therapy . two-dimensional echocardiography is useful for the immediate diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction when diagnostic electrocardiographic changes are absent . the technique is also helpful in distinguishing myocardial infarction from other conditions that may clinically or electrocardiographically mimic infarction . the extent of myocardial infarction can be estimated by the two-dimensional echocardiographically derived wall motion score index . therefore , two-dimensional echocardiography seems to be ideally suited for the initial noninvasive assessment of patients with acute chest pain syndromes , especially those who are considered for acute reperfusion therapy . 
bronchoscopic phototherapy with hematoporphyrin derivative for treatment of localized bronchogenic carcinoma : a 5-year experience . between december 1980 and april 1986 at our institution , 38 patients with cancer that involved the tracheobronchial tree ( a total of 40 carcinomas ) completed at least one course of hematoporphyrin derivative phototherapy . a complete response occurred in 13 patients ( with 14 carcinomas ) . eleven of these carcinomas did not recur during follow-up periods that ranged from 3 to 53 months . three carcinomas recurred at 9 , 12 , and 35 months , respectively . for 26 carcinomas , the response was less than complete , and alternative therapy was necessary . the carcinomas in patients with a complete response were radiographically occult , were less than 3 cm2 in surface area , and appeared superficial at bronchoscopy . our experience supports the use of hematoporphyrin derivative phototherapy as an alternative to surgical resection in carefully selected patients . 
absorbable gelatin film verses silicone rubber sheeting in orbital fracture treatment . orbital floor fractures can result in herniation of orbital tissues and impairment of ocular function . in this experimental study , orbital defects were created surgically in cats . the gross and histologic healing of these defects was compared among animals implanted with silicone rubber sheeting or absorbable gelatin film and animals that received no implants . both implanted animal groups demonstrated enhancement of healing . the absorbable gelatin film showed less migration , less inflammatory response , and improved healing . this animal study supports the use of absorbable gelatin film in the surgical management of orbital fractures . 
stapedectomy and round window closure . round window closure is an uncommon complication of advanced otosclerosis found in 1 % of 30 , 000 stapedectomy cases . a review of 81 patients representing 110 operation cases was made to determine what factors may alert the otologic surgeon to the patient with round window closure and what factors may identify the patient who will achieve the greatest benefit from stapedectomy . 
benign and malignant neoplasms of the parotid gland : incidence and histology in the danish county of funen . the present series is comprised of 155 patients from the county of funen who were operated on for tumors of the parotid gland during the 5-year period , 1978 to 1982. fifteen cases were malignant , 116 were benign , while no neoplasms were found in 24 cases . the incidence was calculated as 5.8 parotid neoplasms per year per 100 , 000 inhabitants . computation of age standardized incidence rates adjusted to european and world standard populations has been performed . it is stated that the county of funen is a well-defined area and the series can be regarded to be representative of a certain geographical area . the histological classification was carried out according to the rules of the world health organization ( who ) and revealed a remarkably high occurrence of warthin 's tumors , i.e. , 27.5 % . 
intramuscular head and neck myxoma : report of a case and review of the literature . intramuscular myxoma of the head and neck is a rare lesion with only six cases documented in the literature . the tumor demonstrates a benign clinical course without a tendency to recur and is occasionally associated with fibrous dysplasia . it thus deserves to be considered in a separate class from other soft tissue myxomas . the seventh case of a head and neck intramuscular myxoma is presented and the clinical , pathological , and ct characteristics of this tumor are reviewed . 
fiberendoscopic removal of pharyngeal foreign bodies . 
meatoplasty in chronic ear disease when using an open technique . 
single dose amoxicillin treatment of acute otitis media . a double blind study comparing a single dose of amoxicillin versus a 10-day course of amoxicillin in the treatment of acute otitis media ( aom ) was undertaken . all children diagnosed with aom in a pediatric clinic were requested to participate . after tympanocentesis was performed , patients were randomly assigned to receive either amoxicillin ( 100 mg / kg ) followed by placebo every 8 hours for 10 days or placebo followed by amoxicillin ( 40 mg / kg / d ) for 10 days . patients returned to clinic on days 3 and 10 post-treatment . seventeen patients were enrolled : 7 received single dose therapy and 10 received 10 days of therapy . there were no failures in the control group and 3 failures in the single dose group ( day 5 , day 6 , and 11 ) ( p = 0.05 ) . middle ear isolates included : s . pneumoniae 7 , h . influenzae 4 , b . catarrhalis 1 , and no pathogen in 5. due to the significant number of failures in the treatment group , the study was prematurely terminated . 
videofluoroscopic and scintigraphic analysis of dysphagia in the head and neck cancer patient . this paper presents two advances in the evaluation of swallowing function which better define the swallowing processes in the head and neck cancer patient . videofluoroscopy , improved by computer-assisted image analysis , provides more accurate information regarding oral and pharyngeal movement of structures . radionuclide scintigraphy , a complementary technique , quantitates bolus flow ( transit times ) and the degree of aspiration . several cases demonstrate the advantages of the methods and their usefulness in evaluating the effects of cancer treatment . the improved techniques also provide opportunity for designing new strategies of medical and surgical rehabilitation . 
the joseph h . ogura memorial lecture : conservation surgery past , present , and future . 
transoral approach to fractures of the mandible . the transoral approach to open reduction of mandibular fractures has gained popularity but remains controversial . this report reviews 37 consecutive transoral open reductions of various mandibular fractures performed in 32 patients over a 2-year period . the fracture site most often addressed transorally was the symphysis and parasymphysis area . a 19 % complication rate and an 11 % infection rate were observed . 
multichannel intracochlear electrodes : mechanism of insertion trauma . cochlear damage from electrode insertion , a potential cause of further neural degeneration , is a major concern in the use of intracochlear electrodes . a study was undertaken to evaluate mechanisms by which damage may occur . fresh human temporal bone preparations were created to allow direct intracochlear observation during round window insertion of a free-fitting multichannel intracochlear electrode array . the path taken by the electrode , point of first resistance , and any resulting damage were documented . tips of study electrodes in this preparation tended to embed in the outer wall of the scala tympani . the integrity of the basilar partition was largely maintained during insertion when this was stopped at the point of first resistance . however , insertion beyond the point of first resistance typically resulted in widespread damage to intracochlear structures . 
surgical considerations and hearing results with the ucsf / storz cochlear implant . sixteen patients have been implanted with the ucsf / storz multichannel implant , 11 of whom have been fitted with their external speech processors and transmitters and administered postoperative audiological evaluations . both the surgical procedures used and the hearing results for these patients are presented . the potential medical / surgical complications of implant surgery and the future direction of research and development within the ucsf / storz implant program are discussed . 
experimental autoimmune sensorineural hearing loss . alterations in host immunity result in a number of disorders affecting multiple organ systems , including the inner ear . the mechanism of injury is poorly understood ; as such , this study investigated whether an experimental model of autoimmune sensorineural hearing loss ( asnhl ) could be established . animals were immunized with heterologous inner ear antigen and then evaluated for evidence of evolving inner ear autoimmunity . these animals uniformly developed antibodies to inner ear antigen in their sera and perilymph and 12 of 38 ears showed significant increases in action potential thresholds . histopathological lesions consisted of loss of cochlear neurons , perivascular plasma cell infiltrates , edema , and extravasation of erythrocytes . these findings are characteristic of autoimmune injury and suggest the establishment of an experimental model of asnhl in which to further investigate this clinical disorder . 
reirradiation of recurrent head and neck cancers . ninety-nine patients with recurrent cancers of the head and neck region were treated with surgery , radiation therapy , or combination therapy . the follow-up period ranged from 18 months to 18 years . an initial overall complete response rate of 67 % and a partial response rate of 7 % ( overall response rate-74 % ) were achieved . the eventual tumor control rate was 15 % . although equal initial response rates were achieved in recurrences at the primary site and the cervical nodes , the eventual local control was better for the former ( 21 % vs . 10 % ) . patients receiving less than 5 , 000 rad radiotherapy had a 44 % complete response and an 11 % eventual tumor control . patients receiving over 5 , 000 rad had an 80 % complete response and a 25 % eventual tumor control . 
a prospective evaluation of speaking tracheostomy tubes for ventilator dependent patients . the effectiveness of speaking tracheostomy tubes for ventilator dependent patients has not been clearly established . only a few reports by authors using the device are available . we describe our experience with 23 patients who were evaluated for insertion of the speaking tracheostomy tube . nineteen patients were determined to be appropriate candidates and we observed significant benefits from its use in 15 of these patients . the major problems were air leaks around the cuff , nonavailability of smaller sizes , and dependence on an assistant during its use . careful screening is important when selecting candidates for the device since inappropriate selection may cause further frustration and a sense of failure for the patient . 
discrepancies between clinical and histopathologic diagnoses in t3 pyriform sinus cancer . the various ways in which pyriform sinus cancer extends to laryngeal structures were analyzed by whole-organ serial-sectioning . the problems regarding vocal cord fixation ( t3 ) by this cancer are discussed . this study found that vocal cord fixation in pyriform sinus cancer is due mainly to the involvement of the intrinsic laryngeal muscles and not to the involvement of the arytenoid cartilage or the cricoarytenoid joint . a tumor originating in the medial wall tends to extend medially and to invade the intrinsic laryngeal muscles . this causes vocal cord fixation ( t3 ) before classification as t2 . however , a tumor originating in the lateral wall extends laterally beyond the thyroid ala ( t4 ) with a mobile cord . therefore , it is suggested that the t classification of the vocal cord fixation ( t3 ) of pyriform sinus cancer may not reflect the actual cancer involvement . 
prognostic factors in cervical lymph node metastasis in upper respiratory and digestive tract carcinomas : study of 1 , 713 cases during a 15-year period . a prospective study of 1 , 713 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck submitted to neck dissection between 1957 and 1973 is presented . we confirm the prognostic significance of the histological analysis of the nodal metastasis . capsular rupture is the most important factor regardless of the primary site or tumor size . the presence of tumor emboli within lymphatics , the number of invaded nodes , and the number of nodes with capsular rupture are of significance though to a lesser extent . classification of the clinical characteristics or the nodes provided , in 70 % of the patients , a good prediction of histological involvement . in the clinical estimation of histological invasion , an important parameter is the size of the largest node detected , and we suggest this characteristic should be included in the tnm classification of uicc . 
portable computers : the physician 's choice . 
the resident medical wallaby office system . 
the third annual medical software buyers ' guide . 
drugs for hypertension . 
neuroendocrinology and brain peptides . 
neurology of sex steroids and oral contraceptives . under normal circumstances , sex steroids interact with diverse neural substrates to modulate a host of activities essential to the preservation of the individual and the species . in addition , sex hormones play an important role in various human neurologic conditions including strokes , migraine , certain movement disorders and peripheral neuropathies , and possibly even the behavior of cns neoplasms . 
neuroendocrine aspects of pineal tumors . the evaluation and treatment of pineal region tumors has changed dramatically in the past decade . new imaging techniques result in earlier diagnosis . surgical techniques now permit removal of benign tumors ( about one third of cases ) . pathologic diagnosis is obtained for the remainder , and postoperative therapy can be planned rationally . germ cell tumors pose a particularly difficult problem for the pathologist because they often contain mixed germ cell elements . biologic markers , beta hcg and afp , aid diagnosis and can be monitored in serum and csf to assess response to treatment . only boys develop precocious puberty with pineal tumors . what appears to be puberty is actually pseudoprecocious puberty , due to ectopic production of hcg by their neoplasms ( choriocarcinomas or germinomas with syncytiotrophoblastic giant cells ) . hcg can stimulate tests to produce testosterone , but fsh is necessary ( together with lh or hcg ) to stimulate ovaries to produce estrogen . diabetes insipidus with pineal tumors is usually due to spread to the hypothalamus by ventricular seeding , but we report a case of aqueductal stenosis with diabetes insipidus resulting from a massively dilated third ventricle . rarely , hydrocephalus may trigger true precocious puberty , a syndrome easily differentiated from pseudoprecocious puberty by endocrinologic tests . there are no biologic markers to diagnose pineal parenchymal tumors . elevation of melatonin in plasma or csf and increased tumor biosynthetic activity has been reported in isolated cases , but the range of melatonin values in normals is very wide , and melatonin levels do not correlate with specific pathologic tumor types . both parenchymal and nonparenchymal tumors may increase melatonin nonspecifically by interfering with regulatory mechanisms of the normal pineal gland . 
hormone pathways in cerebrospinal fluid . at present , it is difficult to reconcile the relative absence of clear , positive evidence for hormone pathways of the csf and the ventricular route hypothesis , even when only very particular hormone systems ( such as the lhrh system ) are examined . one must consider several of the parameters described previously , such as possible entry of hormones into the csf via the choroid plexus , cvos and intraventricular nerve endings , or even the possibility that they may cross the blood-brain barrier . of course , these considerations are important for whatever hormone system is being studied , and there probably may turn out to be several pathways for any particular hormone to access the csf . in conclusion , despite the fact that there are many acceptable features of the ventricular route hypothesis , more investigation remains to be undertaken in order to fully appreciate the importance of the csf as an integrator of neuronal and endocrine function . 
endocrinology of pseudotumor cerebri . this article will review the endocrine function of obese young women with pseudotumor cerebri and primary empty sella syndrome . the literature can be difficult to interpret . much of it predates the era of ct scanning . often , cases of primary and secondary empty sella syndrome are comingled . the author reviews specific endocrinologic disorders that have sometimes been associated with increased intracranial pressure excluding pituitary adenomas . 
chromosome analysis of human oocytes recovered from preovulatory follicles in stimulated cycles . to investigate the incidence and types of abnormalities of chromosome number in oocytes , we recovered preovulatory oocytes from 17 women who were undergoing clomiphene stimulation and laparoscopy because of infertility . twenty-three oocytes were recovered and studied after they had been fixed with a gradual-fixation method : 17 of the oocytes had numbers of chromosomes in the haploid range ( 19 to 25 second-metaphase chromosomes ) , 4 had only 1 to 5 chromosomes , 1 was not analyzable , and 1 had 23 chromosome bivalents in the first metaphase . of the oocytes with chromosome numbers in the haploid range , nine had an apparently normal haploid set of 23 chromosomes . two had 1 to 2 additional chromosomes , three lacked 2 to 4 chromosomes , and three had totals of chromosomes that were close to 23 but could not be determined with certainty . we conclude that infertile women undergoing clomiphene stimulation have a high proportion ( nearly 50 percent ) of oocytes with an abnormal karyotype . if this is also true of fertile women , including those not taking clomiphene , it may explain the high frequency of chromosome aberrations occurring in early spontaneous abortion and the low pregnancy rate after in vitro fertilization . 
" idiopathic " hypercalciuria and hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets . two phenotypical expressions of a common genetic defect . among 59 closely related members of one bedouin tribe , we identified 9 who had the characteristic features of hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria ( hhrh ) . we found " idiopathic " hypercalciuria in 21 of the 50 asymptomatic members . the biochemical abnormalities observed in these 21 subjects were qualitatively similar to those in the 9 with hhrh , but were quantitatively milder . the urinary calcium concentration was 0.43 + / - 0.14 mg per milligram of creatinine ( mean + / - sd ) in the patients with hhrh , 0.34 + / - 0.07 in the subjects with idiopathic hypercalciuria , and 0.14 + / - 0.05 in normal subjects from the same tribe . tubular reabsorption of phosphorus and serum phosphorus concentrations were 3.0 and 4.3 sd units below the age-related mean , respectively , in hhrh , and 1.1 sd units below the normal mean for both variables in idiopathic hypercalciuria . mean serum levels of 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d ( 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d ) were 303 pg per milliliter in hhrh and 145 pg per milliliter in idiopathic hypercalciuria ( upper normal limit , 110 ) . we conclude that the subjects with hypercalciuria and the patients with hhrh shared a hereditary renal phosphate leak that led to hypophosphatemia , elevated serum concentrations of 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d , increased intestinal calcium absorption , and hypercalciuria . the magnitude of the hypophosphatemia , which regulates 1 , 25- ( oh ) 2d levels , appears to determine which subjects will have hypercalciuria alone and which will also have bone disease . 
accurate prediction of the outcome of pediatric intensive care . a new quantitative method . we surveyed nine pediatric intensive care units ( icus ) to compare patient populations and to test prospectively the hypothesis that differences in mortality rates were due to differences in severity of illness . age , clinical service , the reason for admission ( emergency or scheduled ) , and the seriousness of the underlying chronic disease were recorded on admission . the severity of illness was assessed on the day of admission with a physiology-based measure , the physiologic stability index . the resulting score was used to group patients according to mortality risk . the observed numbers of icu survivors and nonsurvivors in each mortality-risk group from eight of the pediatric icus were compared with the predicted numbers of survivors and nonsurviors calculated from a mathematical function ( logistic model ) derived earlier from data on 822 patients at one of the institutions . patient populations in the icus differed significantly with respect to age ( range of medians , 15 to 36 months ; p less than 0.0001 ) , medical admissions ( range , 39 to 81 percent ; p less than 0.0001 ) , emergency admissions ( range , 53 to 91 percent ; p less than 0.0001 ) , and the percentage of patients with serious underlying chronic disease ( range , 18 to 48 percent ; p less than 0.0001 ) . mortality rates also differed significantly ( range , 3.0 to 17.6 percent ; p less than 0.0001 ) , as did the physiologic stability index scores ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the mathematical function based on the physiologic stability index score and on age reliably predicted the outcomes in all icus . we conclude that differences in mortality rates among pediatric icus can be explained by differences in the severity of illness . 
urinary sodium in the evaluation of hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis [ published erratum appears in n engl j med 1987 jun 11 ; 316 ( 24 ) : 1556 ] 
case records of the massachusetts general hospital . weekly clinicopathological exercises . case 3-1987 . a 17-year-old girl with numbness of the right leg and the recent onset of vertigo and right-sided weakness . 
reproductive loss : how much is preventable ? [ editorial ] 
oral-contraceptive use and the risk of breast cancer [ letter ] 
postmenopausal estrogen use and heart disease [ letter ] 
high frequency of herpes zoster in young hemophiliacs [ letter ] 
human parvovirus infection in pregnancy and hydrops fetalis . human parvovirus is the causative agent of erythema infectiosum , a mild epidemic illness . in a recent outbreak in northeast scotland , six women had serologic evidence of having contracted human parvovirus infection during pregnancy . two of the women had midtrimester abortions , and both abortuses were grossly hydropic with anemia . they had similar microscopical histopathological features--a pronounced leukoerythroblastic reaction , hepatitis , excessive iron pigment in the liver , and eosinophilic changes in the hematopoietic cell nuclei . dot hybridization with radiolabeled human parvovirus dna probes revealed viral dna in several tissues from both fetuses , indicating that they had been infected by the virus in utero . the remaining four women had uncomplicated pregnancies and delivered apparently healthy babies , none of whom had human parvovirus-specific igm antibody at delivery . we conclude that this common virus may pose a serious risk to the fetus after maternal infection . 
the progesterone antagonist ru 486. a potential new contraceptive agent [ published erratum appears in n engl j med 1987 feb 12 ; 316 ( 7 ) : 420 ] since progesterone supports endometrial nidation of the fertilized ovum , a progesterone antagonist would theoretically block this process and thus have contraceptive potential . we have explored the ability of ru 486 , a newly developed competitive progesterone antagonist , to function as a contraceptive agent . a single oral dose of 10 mg per kilogram of body weight given in the midluteal phase consistently induced menses within 72 hours in women with normal cycles and no risk of pregnancy . bleeding was not prevented by administration of human chorionic gonadotropin in the midluteal phase . this suggested that giving a single dose of ru 486 late in the menstrual cycle might be an effective contraceptive strategy . this concept was tested in monkeys . when given to rhesus females on day 25 of the cycle , a single intramuscular dose of ru 486 ( 5 mg per kilogram ) prevented pregnancy . the vehicle-treated control animals had a 28 percent pregnancy rate ( p less than 0.05 by chi-square analysis ) . no side effects were noted in women or monkeys . these data suggest that a progesterone antagonist such as ru 486 has the potential to be an effective , safe , and convenient contraceptive agent . further work will be necessary to assess the safety of long-term monthly administration and to define the optimal dose and time of administration in women . 
diagnosis of chloroquine cardiomyopathy by endomyocardial biopsy . 
complement-mediated autoimmune thrombocytopenia . monoclonal igm antiplatelet antibody associated with lymphoreticular malignant disease . 
case records of the massachusetts general hospital . weekly clinicopathological exercises . case 4-1987 . a 50-year-old man with recurrent pleuro-pulmonary abnormalities . 
psychosexual adjustment in congenital adrenal hyperplasia [ editorial ] 
are platelet-antibody tests worthwhile ? [ editorial ] 
involutional osteoporosis [ letter ] 
abnormal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal function in anorexia nervosa [ letter ] 
diltiazem in non-q-wave myocardial infarction [ letter ] 
inadvertent chlorpropamide hypoglycemia--no longer once in a blue moon ? [ letter ] [ published erratum appears in n engl j med 1987 jul 2 ; 317 ( 1 ) : 63 ] 
dietary potassium and stroke-associated mortality . a 12-year prospective population study . hypertension is the most important known risk factor for stroke . clinical , experimental , and epidemiologic evidence suggests that a high dietary intake of potassium is associated with lower blood pressure . in hypertensive rats , a high intake of potassium is reported to protect against stroke , even though blood pressure is not affected . we examined the relation between the 24-hour dietary potassium intake at base line and subsequent stroke-associated mortality in a population-based cohort of 859 men and women ( aged 50 to 79 years ) in southern california . after 12 years , 24 stroke-associated deaths had occurred . the relative risks of stroke-associated mortality in the lowest tertile of potassium intake , as compared with that in the top two tertiles combined , were 2.6 ( p = 0.16 ) in men and 4.8 ( p = 0.01 ) in women . in multivariate analyses , a 10-mmol increase in daily potassium intake was associated with a 40 percent reduction in the risk of stroke-associated mortality ( p less than 0.001 ) . this effect was independent of other dietary variables , including the intake of calories , fat , protein , fiber , calcium , magnesium , and alcohol . the effect was also apparently independent of known cardiovascular risk factors , including age , sex , blood pressure , blood cholesterol level , obesity , fasting blood glucose level , and cigarette smoking . these findings support the hypothesis that a high intake of potassium from food sources may protect against stroke-associated death . 
molecular analysis of the high-hemoglobin-f phenotype in saudi arabian sickle cell anemia . patients from the eastern province of saudi arabia who have sickle cell anemia have high circulating levels of fetal hemoglobin ( hemoglobin f , 17 percent ) , and they therefore have a mild form of the disease . to examine the molecular basis of the elevated production of hemoglobin f , we searched for mutations in the promoter regions of the two hemoglobin f gamma-globin genes ( g gamma and a gamma ) . the dna sequences 450 bp ( base pairs ) upstream of both the g gamma and a gamma globin genes were normal except for a single-base cytosine-to-thymidine ( c----t ) substitution at -158 bp 5 ' to the cap ( preinitiation ) site of the g gamma-globin gene of the high-hemoglobin-f chromosome . we searched for an association between this -158 c----t substitution and the production of hemoglobin f and g gamma in normal saudis and saudis with sickle cell disease or trait . the substitution was present in nearly 100 percent of the patients with sickle cell disease or trait , and in 22 percent of the normal saudis . homozygosity for this mutation had no demonstrable effect on hemoglobin f production in the normal saudi population . we conclude that this mutation is not uniquely responsible for the increase in hemoglobin f in saudi patients . it may nevertheless have an important role in regulating hemoglobin f production , but its expression is complex and requires interaction with additional factors , such as hemolytic stress or other molecular determinants , possibly linked to the sickle cell gene . 
glucose phosphate isomerase deficiency as a cause of hydrops fetalis . 
prolactin and breast cancer [ editorial ] [ published erratum appears in n engl j med 1987 mar 5 ; 316 ( 10 ) : 639 ] 
decision analysis : a basic clinical skill ? [ editorial ] 
early detection of hiv infection in a newborn [ letter ] 
oral penicillin prophylaxis in children with sickle cell anemia in saudi arabia [ letter ] 
barrett 's esophagus [ letter ] 
brain neurotransmitters in dystonia [ letter ] 
more on cola drinks and rehydration in acute diarrhea [ letter ] 
how to give good dogs bad names [ editorial ] 
chernobyl : polish fallout underestimated [ news ] 
embryo research : uk legislation further delayed [ news ] 
medical research : backs to the wall in britain [ news ] 
pesticides : fda told to try harder [ news ] 
nuclear safety : united states opts for caution [ news ] 
rabies vaccine : inquiry into argentine trials [ news ] 
wistar 's export to argentina [ letter ] 
aids in an african context [ news ] 
a superfamily of potentially oncogenic hormone receptors [ news ] 
new data from mammalian homoeobox-containing genes [ news ] 
microtubule dynamics [ letter ] 
alternative solutions [ letter ] 
how many reactor accidents ? [ letter ] 
preservation in bogs [ letter ] 
location of a delta-subunit region determining ion transport through the acetylcholine receptor channel . the combination of complementary dna expression and single-channel current analysis provides a powerful tool for studying the structure-function relationship of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor ( achr ) ( refs 1-5 ) . we have previously shown that achr channels consisting of subunits from different species , expressed in the surface membrane of xenopus oocytes , can be used to relate functional properties to individual subunits . here we report that , in extracellular solution of low divalent cation concentration , the bovine achr channel has a smaller conductance than the torpedo achr channel . replacement of the delta-subunit of the torpedo achr by the bovine delta-subunit makes the channel conductance similar to that of the bovine achr channel . to locate the region in the delta-subunit responsible for this difference , we have constructed chimaeric delta-subunit cdnas with different combinations of the torpedo and bovine counterparts . the conductances of achr channels containing chimaeric delta-subunits suggest that a region comprising the putative transmembrane segment m2 and the adjacent bend portion between segments m2 and m3 is involved in determining the rate of ion transport through the open channel . 
abnormal tyrosine phosphorylation on t-cell receptor in lymphoproliferative disorders . the study of human autoimmune diseases has benefited greatly from analysis of animal models . mice that are homozygous for either the lpr ( lymphoproliferation ) or gld ( generalized lymphoproliferative disease ) mutant genes develop a disease characterized by massive lymphadenopathy and autoantibody formation . with age , the lymphoid organs in these mice are replaced with a greatly expanded population of abnormal lymphocytes . recent work has shown that these cells are likely to be in the t-cell lineage . they rearrange and transcribe the genes for the alpha and beta subunits of the t-cell receptor ( tcr ) and a third , t-cell receptor-like gene , t gamma . as determined by immunofluorescence with anti-receptor antibodies the cells also express tcr on the cell surface . the murine t-cell receptor consists of the alpha and beta chains , derived from the rearranged alpha and beta genes , in non-covalent association with seven other chains ; the delta chain , of relative molecular mass ( mr ) 26 , 000 ( 26k ) , the epsilon chain ( 25k ) , a glycosylated 21k chain ( gp21 ) which is probably the homologue of the gamma chain of t3 ( cd3 ) , a 16k homodimer ( zeta ) and a 21k dimer ( p21 ) . this multichain complex is thought to be the murine analogue of the human t3 complex . after activation of normal t cells by antigen or lectin , p21 is phosphorylated on tyrosine residues and gp21 is phosphorylated on serine residues . in contrast , in the gld and lpr cells , p21 is phosphorylated even in the absence of antigen or lectin , whereas gp21 is not phosphorylated . 
in vivo protein-dna interactions in a glucocorticoid response element require the presence of the hormone . transcriptional activation of gene expression by glucocorticoid hormones is mediated by the interaction of hormone-receptor complexes with specific dna sequences called glucocorticoid responsive elements ( gres ) ( refs 1-3 , see ref . 4 for review ) . deletion of this sequence abolishes glucocorticoid induction of transcription . according to a current model , activation of the cytoplasmic receptor protein by hormone binding leads to its increased affinity for and translocation to the nucleus . however , recent reports that the oestradiol and progesterone receptors are localized in the nucleus in the absence of steroid led us to examine whether the free receptor interacts in vivo with its dna binding site in the absence of hormone binding . we used the genomic footprinting technique to show that changes in in vivo protein-dna interactions within the gres of the tyrosine aminotransferase gene ( tat ) can be detected only after hormone treatment in hepatoma cells . such changes are not detected in fibroblast cells , in which the tat gene is not expressed . many of the changes in dimethylsulphate reactivity observed in the living cell are also found in vitro using cloned dna and a partially purified glucocorticoid receptor . 
steroid-free glucocorticoid receptor binds specifically to mouse mammary tumour virus dna . steroid hormones are thought to modulate gene expression through their interaction with receptor proteins . the intracellular localization of unoccupied receptor proteins has been a subject of controversy : free glucocorticoid receptor appears to reside in the cytoplasm and moves to the cell nucleus only after binding the steroid . the purified hormone-bound glucocorticoid receptor has been shown to bind selectively to hormone regulatory elements ( hre ) in the vicinity of hormonally-inducible promoters and , in particular , in the long terminal repeat ( ltr ) region of mouse mammary tumour virus ( mmtv ) . we have tackled the question of whether the hormone itself is required for the interaction of the receptor protein with the hre . using monoclonal antibodies to the receptor we find that upon heat-activation the steroid-free glucocorticoid receptor present in rat liver cytosol binds specifically in vitro to the hre of mmtv . no qualitative differences in the dnasei-footprints were detected when hormone-free receptor was compared to the hormone-receptor complex or even receptor complexed with the hormone antagonist ru486 . we conclude that the steroid ligand is not an absolute requirement for generating the conformation of the glucocorticoid receptor that allows its interaction with the hre in vitro . an alternative function of the hormone in vivo could be to modulate nuclear partitioning of the receptor . 
exafs study of the zinc-binding sites in the protein transcription factor iiia . the protein transcription factor iiia ( tfiiia ) is involved in the synthesis of 5s rna in vitro by rna polymerase iii . it can be isolated from xenopus laevis oocytes as a 7s particle in which the protein is associated with 5s rna . recently it has been shown that the native particle contains 7-11 zinc atoms . analysis of the amino-acid sequence of tfiiia revealed nine similar domains of approximately 30 amino acids , each containing two invariant pairs of histidines and cysteines , which have been implicated as possible binding sites for the zinc atoms . other regulatory proteins with sequence homology to the zinc-binding domains of tfiiia have now been reported . here , we report the results of an exafs ( extended x-ray absorption fine structure ) study of tfiiia which shows that the coordination sphere of the zinc sites consists of two cysteine and two histidine residues . 
site-directed mutagenesis reveals role of mobile arginine residue in lactate dehydrogenase catalysis . the binding of substrates to lactate dehydrogenases induces a marked rearrangement of the protein structure in which a ' loop ' of polypeptide ( residues 98-110 ) closes over the active site of the enzyme . in this rearrangement , arginine 109 ( a basic residue conserved in all known lactate dehydrogenase sequences and in the homologous malate dehydrogenases ) moves 0.8 nm from a position in the solvent to one in the active site where its guanidinium group resides within hydrogen bonding distance of both the reactive carbonyl of pyruvate and imidazole ring of the catalytic histidine 195 ( see fig . 1 ) . whilst this feature of the enzyme has been commented upon previously , the function of this mobile arginine residue during catalysis has not been tested experimentally . the advent of protein engineering has now enabled us to define the role of this basic residue by substituting it with the neutral glutamine . transient kinetic and equilibrium studies of the mutant enzyme indicate that arginine 109 enhances the polarization of the pyruvate carbonyl group in the ground state and stabilizes the transition state . the gross active-site structure of the enzyme is not altered by the mutation since an alternative catalytic function of the enzyme ( rate of addition of sulphite to nad+ ) , which does not require hydride transfer , is insensitive to the arginine----glutamine substitution . 
simulating memory by numbers [ news ] 
human evolution . out of the garden of eden [ news ] 
new approaches to vitamin d [ news ] 
chronic granulomatous disease [ letter ] 
nomenclature for homoeobox-containing genes [ letter ] 
vocal tract resonances in oscine bird sound production : evidence from birdsongs in a helium atmosphere . the complexity and dependence on learning of many bird sounds have suggested parallels between birdsong and human speech , but the mechanisms by which each is produced have been supposed to differ markedly . in human speech , resonances of the vocal tract are thought to modulate in complex ways the sound produced by vibration of the vocal folds . the current theory of birdsong production holds that all variation in sound quality arises from the primary sound-producing organ , the syrinx , and that resonances of the vocal tract play no part . here i present evidence , obtained from acoustic analyses of birdsongs recorded in a helium atmosphere , which contradicts this hypothesis . not only does the songbird 's vocal tract act as an acoustic filter , but its filter characteristics are actively coordinated with the output of the syrinx . songbird and human phonation are thus more analogous than previously thought , in that both require coordination of an array of diverse motor systems . 
activation of protein kinase c augments evoked transmitter release . in view of the emerging role of the phosphoinositide system in cellular communication we examined its involvement in quantal-transmitter release , which is a key element in synaptic transmission . transmitter release is normally activated by an increase in intracellular calcium , achieved either by entry of calcium ions through the presynaptic membrane or by intracellular calcium liberation . one of the targets of the phosphoinositide signalling system is the enzyme protein kinase c ( pkc ) , which can be activated experimentally by tumour promoting phorbol esters , including 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) . such activation of pkc may be implicated in transmitter release in two ways . first , phorbol esters were found to increase secretion and enhance calcium currents ; it might therefore be expected that they would increase synaptic transmitter release . but phorbol esters also inhibit the calcium current in dorsal root ganglion neurones . we report that the phorbol ester tpa augments synaptic transmission at the neuromuscular junction by increasing transmitter liberation . activation of pkc also depends synaptic depression . 
activation of a calcium-dependent photoprotein by chemical signalling through gap junctions . in the hydrozoan coelenterate obelia geniculata , epithelial cell action potentials trigger light emission from photocyte effector cells containing obelin , an endogenous calcium-activated photoprotein . as this luminescence is blocked by the removal of extracellular calcium it seemed likely that calcium entry via voltage-gated channels in the photocyte membrane would account for the light emission . however , no inward calcium current was detected in whole cell recordings from dissociated photocytes and depolarization of isolated photocytes produced no luminescence . in contrast , a voltage-dependent calcium current was recorded from non-luminescent support cells , and activation of this current triggered luminescence in an adjacent photocyte . surprisingly , light emission was abolished when the gap junctions between the photocyte and support cell were blocked . we conclude that calcium entry into support cells leads to light emission from neighbouring photocytes via chemical signalling through intercellular gap junctions . 
a new mechanism for induced vitamin d deficiency in calcium deprivation . synthesis of vitamin d in the skin in response to ultraviolet light is the main determinant of vitamin d status in man and it is therefore surprising that rickets and osteomalacia , clinical signs of vitamin d deficiency , remain common in tropical and subtropical countries . skin pigmentation can reduce vitamin d formation but this is a negligible limitation in people exposed to abundant ultraviolet light . earlier studies in animals and man suggested that another environmental factor , the low calcium / high cereal diet typical of susceptible populations , might affect the efficiency of vitamin d utilization . we show here in rats that the rate of inactivation of vitamin d in the liver is increased by calcium deprivation . the effect is mediated by 1 , 25-dihydroxyvitamin d , produced in response to secondary hyperparathyroidism , which promotes hepatic conversion of vitamin d to polar inactivation products that are excreted in bile . this finding has widespread implications both for understanding the pathogenesis of endemic rickets and in that it provides a unifying mechanism for the development of vitamin d deficiency in many clinical disorders . 
evidence against ha-ras-1 involvement in sporadic and familial melanoma . it was recently reported that different rare alleles at the ha-ras-1 locus occurred at a significantly higher combined frequency in cancer patients than in an unaffected population . in particular , melanoma patients were reported to have a significantly higher frequency of such alleles . we have examined the frequency of rare ha-ras-1 alleles in a large number of cases of sporadic melanoma . our results indicate that the distribution of rare alleles in this population does not differ from that found in normal populations . also , to test the hypothesis that a hereditary predisposition to melanoma could be inherited via an allele at the ha-ras-1 locus , we examined the transmission of the segment of the short arm of chromosome 11 ( 11p ) carrying the ha-ras-1 locus in a number of families previously shown to exhibit a hereditary predisposition to melanoma and its precursor lesion , the dysplastic nevus syndrome ( dns ) . our genetic linkage results thus obtained strongly exclude the association of a predisposition to melanoma or the precursor lesion with the inheritance of the ha-ras-1 locus or the segment of chromosome 11 on which it is located . these results imply that hereditary predisposition to melanoma is associated with genes other than the ha-ras-1 locus , contradicting the original suggestion of krontiris et al . , made on the basis of either an inadequate sample size or other misleading experimental factors . 
oestradiol induction of a glucocorticoid-responsive gene by a chimaeric receptor . steroid hormone receptors are a class of cell-specific trans-acting transcription regulatory factors whose activity is controlled by specific binding of the hormone . the hormone-receptor complex appears to associate with promoter / enhancer elements of specific target genes , resulting in activation of transcription ( see refs 1 and 2 for reviews ) . sequence comparison between the oestrogen , glucocorticoid and progesterone receptors ( refs 7 , 8 and unpublished results ) and site-directed mutation analysis , has identified in each at least two functional domains important for steroid receptor function . region e ( fig . 1a ) , is the hormone-binding domain ; region c is a 66-amino-acid region ( figs 1a , b ) that is more highly conserved than the hormone-binding domain and has the potential to form at least two zinc-stabilized ' dna-binding fingers ' analogous to those proposed for the xenopus transcription factor tfiiia . we and others have suggested that this region may be the receptor 's dna-binding domain . we show here that point mutations replacing two cysteines by two histidines in the first potential dna-binding finger of the human oestrogen receptor ( her ) prevent it from activating gene transcription . we further show that a chimaeric receptor formed by replacing this 66-amino-acid region of the her with that of the human glucocorticoid receptor ( hgr ) activates expression of a glucocorticoid-inducible gene , but not of an oestrogen-inducible gene , in the presence of oestradiol . thus , region c determines the receptor 's specificity for target genes . 
two variant surface glycoproteins of trypanosoma brucei of different sequence classes have similar 6 a resolution x-ray structures . antigenic variation in the african trypanosome is mediated through changes in the composition of the surface coat . by controlling expression of the major surface protein , the variant surface glycoprotein ( vsg ) , from a repertoire of perhaps 1 , 000 different genes the organisms exhibit a series of antigenically distinct coats and evade the host 's immune system . we have determined the 6 a resolution structure of a t . brucei variant surface glycoprotein , iltat 1.24 , using x-ray crystallography . the crystallized protein consists of the n-terminal two-thirds of the intact vsg which has a relative molecular mass ( mr ) of 60 , 000 ( 60k ) . the structure , which includes a 90 a long alpha-helical bundle , is strikingly similar to that of the n-terminal fragment of vsg mitat 1.2 ( ref . 4 ) . although most known vsg sequences show little similarity of primary sequence in the n-terminal domain , the similarity between the structure of a class i ( iltat 1.24 ) and a class ii ( mitat 1.2 ) vsg antigen suggests that vsgs may share a common tertiary structure . 
callosal apraxia . a 39-year-old right-handed woman suffered a ruptured pericallosal aneurysm . serial mri studies showed damage to the genu and most of the body of the corpus callosum but not the splenium . both supplementary motor areas ( sma ) appeared intact . we studied the patient 's praxis performance at intervals over a 4-month period with a standardized battery . the study suggests that apraxia seen in patients with callosal lesions is probably due to the callosal damage , not to the usually associated sma lesion . our findings support liepmann 's idea that the left hemisphere is dominant for praxis in both hands . we propose , however , that the dominance effect is related to the type of test given and varies among individuals . as regards the latter , in some individuals the left hemisphere is strongly dominant for motor tasks , while in others it is less so . as regards the type of test , the most enduring left-hand apraxia is seen in verbal , not visuomotor tests . 
coupled forebrain increases of local cerebral glucose utilization and blood flow during physiologic stimulation of a somatosensory pathway in the rat : demonstration by double-label autoradiography . to investigate the relationships of local cerebral glucose utilization ( lcmrgl ) and blood flow ( lcbf ) during physiologic activation , awake wistar rats received unilateral stimulation of the large facial whiskers ( vibrissae ) and were studied by carbon-14 double-label autoradiography . activation was followed by increased lcmrgl and lcbf in appropriate forebrain structures . there was an overall preservation of metabolism / blood flow coupling during periods of somatosensory activation despite small but significant increases ( 14 to 22 % ) in the coupling ratio of the barrel field . prolonged activation may give rise to an intracortical redistribution of lcbf within the barrel field . 
voice tremor : dysregulation of voluntary expiratory muscles . we studied three patients : two with voice and hand tremor , and one with voice tremor . voice tremor was associated with synchronous rhythmic contraction of cricothyroid and rectus abdominis muscles , but not always vocalis muscle . voice tremor was manifested only in voluntary phonation or expiration , not in involuntary phonation , voluntary inspiration , or involuntary expiration and inspiration ( breathing at rest ) . impaired regulation of the cns programs innervating the voluntary expiratory muscles probably causes voice tremor . clonazepam and propranolol were helpful in blinded studies . 
visual electrical evoked potentials : evaluation of ocular injuries . clinical neurophysiologists may be asked to participate in the evaluation of patients with injured eyes . we describe a method for eliciting evoked potentials of cerebral origin using electrical pulse stimuli delivered to the globe of the eye through a contact lens electrode mounted on the cornea . these visual electrical evoked potentials ( veeps ) are contrasted with conventional flash visual evoked potentials in normal subjects and in 19 eyes of 17 patients with severe ocular damage , mostly recent trauma . the findings suggest that the site of transcorneal electrical excitation is not the photoreceptors , but more likely one of the nerve cell layers of the retina . veep recordings offer a way to circumvent the opacification of the ocular media by blood , which may otherwise hamper the evaluation of retinal function in the injured eye . preserved veep response does not necessarily predict the capacity to recover visual function . absent veep response is an unfavorable prognostic sign , which may be considered in arriving at a decision about enucleation . 
back pain in the cancer patient : an algorithm for evaluation and management . epidural spinal cord compression is common in patients with metastatic cancer . back pain is usually the first symptom and may be present for months before neurologic abnormalities occur . a favorable outcome depends on early diagnosis and treatment . for the management of this problem , we propose an algorithm that begins with the treatment of patients who need emergency care and proceeds with an orderly approach to the evaluation of less urgent cases . the central elements include the criteria for myelography and the rational use of corticosteroids , radiation therapy , and surgery . 
chronic nephrotoxicity complicating cyclosporine treatment of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy . we elected to use cyclosporin a ( csa ) in a woman debilitated by refractory chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy . although strength improved coincident with csa therapy , after 21 months she developed congestive heart failure and had a precipitous loss of renal function with chronic renal failure requiring hemodialysis . while most csa-induced nephrotoxicity is dose related and reversible , the kidney biopsy in our patient showed chronic nephropathy , a complication previously unreported in the native kidney of a nontransplant patient . a slow rise in blood pressure preceded serum creatinine changes and was an early indicator of impending irreversible nephrotoxicity . 
cytomegalovirus encephalitis associated with episodic neurologic deficits and okt-8+ pleocytosis . after 3 days of symptoms suggesting a viral illness , a 35-year-old man experienced three episodes of aphasia , right-sided sensory symptoms , and bifrontal headache . each lasted several hours . csf examination revealed a moderate lymphocytosis consisting of 80 % okt-8+ cells . serum anti-cytomegalovirus ( anti-cmv ) antibody titer was elevated at 1 : 1 , 024 and subsequently fell to 1 : 64. episodic symptoms recurred 5 months later , at which time the anti-cmv titer peaked at 1 : 8 , 192. a trial of inhaled oxygen aborted two episodes after several minutes each . 
31p nmr studies in duchenne muscular dystrophy : age-related metabolic changes . to evaluate possible progressive metabolic changes in duchenne muscular dystrophy , we used 31p nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy to measure high-energy phosphate compounds and phosphorylated diesters ( pde ) in resting gastrocnemius muscle of 14 duchenne patients and 10 normal boys . the patients had higher inorganic phosphate ( pi ) , intracellular ph , and pde ; and lower phosphocreatine ( pcr ) and pcr / pi ratio ; atp was not significantly different . the patients showed significant age-related decreases in pcr and pcr / pi , and increases in pi and pde , but atp did not change . in normal boys , atp increased with age , but pcr and pi did not . these studies imply progressive metabolic deterioration in duchenne dystrophy . 
caffeine and tremor . two percent of normal controls noted that drinking coffee made their hands shaky . eight percent of essential tremor and 6 % of parkinson 's disease patients thought that coffee worsened their tremor . in formal tests , a single oral dose of caffeine ( 325 mg ) did not increase physiologic , essential tremor , or parkinsonian tremor at 1 , 2 , or 3 hours after ingestion . caffeine only infrequently induces tremor in normal people , and it does not exacerbate pathologic tremor . 
asymmetric cavernous sinus not necessarily pathologic [ letter ] 
localizing deep intracranial voltage sources by scalp-recorded eeg [ letter ] 
abnormalities of endoneurial microvessels and sural nerve pathology in diabetic neuropathy . we measured the cellular components of 290 endoneurial microvessels in sural nerve of 34 diabetics and of 185 microvessels from 23 healthy subjects . numbers of endothelial nuclei , area of endothelium , and thickness of basement membrane were significantly greater in diabetics with neuropathy than in controls and were statistically associated with severity of neuropathologic abnormality of myelinated fibers . the range of lumen areas was greater in diabetics than in controls , suggesting capillary dilatation of some vessels . microvessels had pericytic debris in 8.5 % of vessels from diabetics and none in controls . 
magnetic resonance imaging in vascular dementia . patients with vascular dementia show distinctive white matter lesions on mri . we performed mri on 34 patients with documented ischemic cerebrovascular disease to see whether demented and nondemented patients differ with respect to enlarged csf spaces or white matter lesions . all eight demented patients had white matter lesions on mri , just as did many borderline and nondemented patients . enlargement of central csf spaces was the only radiographic feature that was seen more commonly in demented than in nondemented patients with ischemic cerebrovascular disease . 
movement disorders and aids . we studied seven patients with aids or aids-related complex ( arc ) and movement disorders . three had hemichorea-ballismus , two had segmental myoclonus , one had postural tremor with dystonia , and one had paroxysmal dystonia . besides the hyperkinesias , two patients had parkinsonism , and one had cerebral whipple 's disease . in two , the movement disorder preceded other evidence of aids ; in three others , the diagnosis of aids was not considered until there was a movement disorder . the movement disorders were attributed to toxoplasmosis in four patients ( one confirmed at autopsy ) , viral encephalitis , vacuolar myelopathy , and cns whipple 's disease . 
use of serum creatine kinase , pyruvate kinase , and genetic linkage for carrier detection in duchenne and becker dystrophy . carrier detection in duchenne dystrophy ( dd ) and becker dystrophy ( bd ) can be achieved with dna probes that recognize restriction fragment length polymorphisms ( rflps ) . in 22 families , we found that 16 of 23 females at risk for being dd or bd carriers could be provided with more definitive indications of carrier status beyond the use of creatine kinase / pyruvate kinase and pedigree analysis . rflp analysis was not possible for six individuals despite potentially informative probes , because family members critical to the analysis were unavailable . in only one instance were all eight probes uninformative . 
parkinson 's disease and dementia : norepinephrine and dopamine in locus ceruleus . norepinephrine , 3-methoxy 4-hydroxyphenylethyleneglycol and homovanillic acid levels were similar in the locus ceruleus of 13 controls and 8 parkinsonian patients with no intellectual deterioration , but were decreased in 7 demented patients . the concentration of dopamine was similarly diminished in non-demented and demented parkinsonians , and binding of 3h-desmethylimipramine and 3h-rauwolscine was not abnormal in parkinsonians . these data indicate that norepinephrine metabolism in the locus ceruleus is subnormal only in demented parkinsonians . 
sural nerve stimulation and motor control of tibialis anterior muscle in spastic paresis . in patients with spastic paraparesis , increased extensor tonus can be decreased by stimulation of flexor reflex afferents . this should improve dorsiflexion of the foot and reduce the sense of effort . we therefore examined ability to maintain stable firing of a single motor unit ( smu ) in tibialis anterior muscle and force of dorsiflexion in 17 normal subjects and 9 with spastic paresis , during several minutes of tonic nonpainful stimulation ( 20 hz , 0.1 msec ) of the sural nerve at the ankle ( sns ) . subjects were asked to maintain stable smu firing first with , then without auditory feedback of the motor unit potential . sns was then applied for several minutes . in normal subjects , the force of dorsiflexion increased 33 + / - 26 % with sns and 2.5 % + / - 5 % without sns ( p less than 0.0005 ) . most subjects noted increased resistance to dorsiflexion during sns that resulted in greater innervation of tibialis anterior muscle . in six abnormal subjects , the force of dorsiflexion increased 30 + / - 30 % with sns , but no increase was recorded without sns . in normal subjects and those with spastic paresis of the legs , sns increased innervation of tibialis anterior muscle and awareness of greater effort required to maintain constant innervation . the altered proprioception may depend on facilitation of motor neurons . 
hyperactive vestibulo-ocular reflex in cerebellar degeneration : pathogenesis and treatment . we studied a patient with a cerebellar degeneration and hyperactive vestibulo-ocular reflex ( vor ) . he complained of oscillopsia and blurred vision with head movement . a twofold increase in vor gain ( peak eye velocity / peak head velocity ) at high frequencies was associated with a vor time constant of 6 seconds ( low normal ) . visual cancellation ( " suppression " ) of the vor and smooth pursuit were also abnormal . we hypothesized that his high vor gain was due to dysfunction of olivocerebellar projections . physostigmine reduced his vor gain , consistent with the hypothesis that these projections are cholinergic . 
friedreich 's disease : v . variant form with vitamin e deficiency and normal fat absorption . a 30-year-old woman was thought to have friedreich 's disease because of progressive ataxia , dysarthria , and titubation from age 3 years . her diet was normal , and there were neither symptoms nor laboratory evidence of liver disease or fat malabsorption . serum vitamin e content and the ratio of serum vitamin e to total serum lipid were very low , but serum vitamin a , cholylglycine , and lipid levels were normal , as was an oral vitamin e tolerance test . muscle biopsy showed the lysosomal inclusions of vitamin e deficiency . mitochondria had normal oxidative phosphorylation using polarographic assays . the cause of her vitamin e deficiency was unknown . 
the source of ' paradoxical lateralization ' of cortical evoked potentials to posterior tibial nerve stimulation . we report the potentials elicited by posterior tibial nerve stimulation and recorded simultaneously from the scalp and from electrodes within the interhemispheric fissure . the primary cortical potential was recorded from cortex contralateral but from scalp ipsilateral to the stimulated nerve . the scalp recordings thus demonstrated " paradoxical lateralization " as reported previously , and the similar morphology of the scalp and contralateral cortical recordings confirm that this " paradoxical lateralization " is most likely the result of a horizontal dipole located within the interhemispheric fissure . 
quantitative assessment of position sense at the ankle : a functional approach . we studied position sense at the ankle in 22 normal subjects to develop a functionally meaningful method of identifying mild position sense loss in individuals with suspected posterior column disease . subjects were asked to match the angular displacement of a passively positioned reference foot . the subjects tried to improve performance by training sessions and visual feedback during the task . the subjects made accurate matches over a wide range of positions , with an average error of about 3 degrees . these methods can be used to provide a sensitive assessment of proprioception . 
regional variation in cerebral perfusion during acute hypertension . regional cerebral blood flow ( rcbf ) was measured in rats to define the autoregulatory response at different levels of hypertension . mean arterial blood pressure ( mabp ) was raised with iv metaraminol . rcbf was measured using 14c-iodoantipyrine . autoregulation was intact in normotensive animals and those with mabp of 152 to 158 mm hg . at higher pressures , autoregulation was abnormal and heterogeneous . hyperperfusion was most prominent in cerebellum , parietal gray matter , thalamus , striatum , and pons . these anatomic sites are recognized sites of hypertensive hemorrhage in humans . 
manipulation of children 's eating preferences . 
ascorbic acid intake and salivary ascorbate levels . 
energy expenditure in smokers . 
why does phenylalanine do harm in pku ? 
pyridoxine deficiency and phospholipid metabolism . 
metabolism of bovine adipose tissue during lactogenesis and lactation . 
alcohol abuse and fatty acid ethyl esters . 
the biosynthesis of phosphatidylmannose and related compounds . 
lead-associated protein in kidney and brain . 
1986 e . v . mccollum international lectureship in nutrition . toward harmonization of dietary , biochemical , and clinical assessments : the meanings of nutritional status and requirements . 
the korsakoff syndrome in an alcoholic man with scurvy . 
effect of age on the linoleate content of skin acylglucosylceramide in mice . 
vitamin e and erythrocyte survival in rats . 
method and route of delivery in the low birth weight vertex presentation correlated with early periventricular / intraventricular hemorrhage . two hundred eighty patients with vertex presentation who were in spontaneous labor and delivered neonates weighing 2 kg or less were examined for early ultrasound evidence of periventricular / intraventricular hemorrhage . this was correlated retrospectively with delivery route ( cesarean section versus vaginal delivery ) and delivery method ( low forceps delivery versus normal spontaneous delivery ) in the group born vaginally . no correlation was evident between early periventricular / intraventricular hemorrhage and delivery route or method . 
uterine hemangiopericytoma . in a clinicopathologic analysis of previously unreported uterine hemangiopericytomas , malignant behavior was observed in four of 21 followed patients . recurrent disease occurred in the pelvis , abdomen , and lungs . the role of chemotherapy in the treatment of recurrences was not substantiated . no specific histologic features could be identified that correlated with malignant potential . 
uterine papillary serous carcinoma . reviewed are 37 patients with the diagnosis of uterine papillary serous carcinoma . clinically , 19 patients presented as stage i , 9 as stage ii , 1 as stage iii , and 8 as stage iv . four of 18 patients with clinical stage i disease who underwent surgery had pelvic metastases and five had disease spread beyond the pelvis . three of nine clinical stage ii patients had intraabdominal metastases . at least 50 % myometrial invasion was found in 43 % of the 30 hysterectomy specimens , and lymphatic invasion in the myometrium was demonstrated in 78 % of the specimens . each of the 15 patients with surgical stage i or ii disease received local radiation therapy : 10 are alive and of these 9 are disease-free . each of nine clinical stage ii patients received intense radiation therapy and hysterectomy ; seven are alive and of these four are disease free . the five-year survival for combined surgical stages i and ii patients was 45 % . the three-year survival for combined surgical stages iii and iv was 11 % . thirteen patients have been treated with combination chemotherapy , 11 with cis-platinum-based combinations . nine of these patients are dead ; four are alive , with three of these having progressive disease . 
decreased amniotic fluid magnesium concentration in diabetic pregnancy . amniotic fluid samples from 21 diabetic pregnant women were pair-matched for gestational age with 21 samples obtained from nondiabetic women , and analyzed for magnesium concentration . mean + / - standard deviation amniotic fluid magnesium concentration ( mg / dl ) was 0.86 + / - 0.21 in the diabetic group and 1.06 + / - 0.22 in the control group ( p less than .001 ) . it is concluded that in the diabetic pregnancy , a state of fetal magnesium deficiency exists . this deficient state may contribute to neonatal hypocalcemia in infants of diabetic mothers . 
bone fractures among former college athletes compared with nonathletes in the menopausal and postmenopausal years . data are presented on the prevalence ( lifetime occurrence ) of bone fractures among 5398 college alumnae , 2622 former college athletes , and 2776 nonathletes , ranging in age from 21 to 80 years . as expected from increased physical activity , the former college athletes in each age decade from 20 to 70 years and over reported a higher lifetime occurrence ( i.e. , at any age up to the time of reporting ) of bone fractures of all types , than that of nonathletes ( 40.5 versus 31.9 % , p less than .001 ) . however , when athletic activity was accounted for , the former college athletes were at no greater risk of fractures in the menopausal years than were nonathletes . among women 60 years and over who were fracture-free up to age 40 , the rate for any fracture at age 40 or over was 29 % for former college athletes compared with 32 % for nonathletes , a nonsignificant difference . 
abbreviated antibiotic therapy for the treatment of postpartum endometritis . standard antimicrobial therapy for postpartum endometritis usually consists of several days of intravenous antibiotics followed by up to ten days of oral therapy . in an effort to decrease the length of hospitalization and duration of antibiotic use , 54 patients were placed on an abbreviated antibiotic protocol . therapy consisted of intravenous gentamicin and clindamycin until the patient 's temperature remained lower than 99.5f for 24 hours , at which time intravenous antibiotics were discontinued and the patient was discharged immediately without oral medication . no morbidity secondary to the abbreviated regimen was observed . further , the duration of hospitalization and antibiotic therapy of the study group were significantly shorter than similar data from a group of historic controls . these observations suggest that an abbreviated course of antibiotics , based upon the patient 's " therapeutic response , " may be a safe and cost-effective alternative to the currently practiced therapeutic regimen . 
acute cholecystitis in pregnancy . thirty cases of acute cholecystitis in pregnancy were identified during a 12-year period . twenty-one patients were successfully managed with medical therapy alone . nine underwent surgical intervention , four after failing medical therapy and five as the initial approach to therapy . surgical therapy was complicated by preterm labor and delivery in two patients undergoing surgery during the early third trimester . one patient underwent cholecystectomy during the first trimester and subsequently aborted . there were no serious complications in patients undergoing surgery during the second trimester . these data suggest that conservative medical management can be successfully used in most patients with acute cholecystitis in pregnancy . 
a literature filing system in obstetrics and gynecology . standard indexes and classification systems are frequently overly complicated and inappropriate for organizing copies of articles and reprints in a personal literature file . based on an analysis of the tables of contents from 11 publications in the field of obstetrics and gynecology , a classification system has been developed . the system allows for individual needs in categorizing subspecialty interests and for new developments in the field . 
effect of long-term oral contraceptive therapy before pregnancy on maternal and fetal zinc and copper status . thirteen pregnant women who conceived within six months after terminating oral contraceptive agent therapy of at least three years ' duration participated in this study . nine pregnant women with no history of oral contraceptive agent use served as controls . at delivery , erythrocyte counts were reduced , and during the first trimester and at delivery mean corpuscular hemoglobin and volume values were increased and erythrocyte zinc values were reduced in the oral contraceptive agent group as compared with controls . these changes appeared to be subclinical in magnitude and oral contraceptive agents may have induced a macrocytic erythrocyte population . because no changes in maternal plasma zinc and copper levels were observed and no hematologic , biochemical , or anthropometric differences were observed in neonates , long-term oral contraceptive agent usage appeared to have little or no effect on zinc and copper metabolism in a subsequent pregnancy . 
voiding difficulties after colposuspension . to study subjective and objective changes of micturition after colposuspension , 80 patients were evaluated before and after surgery . it was found that colposuspension may introduce an element of urethral obstruction , which leads to a significant proportion of immediate as well as late voiding difficulties . thus , 25 % of the patients developed severe voiding difficulties in the immediate postoperative course . low pressure voiding ( pdet less than 15 cm water ) preoperatively was found to predispose significantly to immediate postoperative voiding difficulties . another 20 % developed late voiding difficulties . increased urethral resistance preoperatively was found to predispose significantly to late postoperative voiding difficulties . increased urethral rigidity is suggested as an underlying factor . only four ( 5 % ) of the patients developed both immediate and late postoperative voiding difficulties . the detrusor pressure at maximum flow was found to be an unreliable parameter in assessing the true potential of the detrusor . it is emphasized that a thorough preoperative evaluation of both bladder and urethral function and the use of a proper surgical technique are required to avoid voiding difficulties after colposuspension . 
one-hour pad-weighing test for objective assessment of female urinary incontinence . in a 16-month period the one-hour pad-weighing test proposed by the international continence society was used in 126 instances for objective assessment of the degree of incontinence in 81 women with urinary incontinence . the present study deals with applicability of the test , patient compliance , reproducibility of the test , and comparison of test results with conventional methods for objective assessment of urinary incontinence . in spite of a rather high mean age ( 55 years ) , 73 patients ( 88 % ) were able to perform the entire test program . in 85 tests ( 68 % ) the patients indicated the result to be in accordance with the daily leakage . the reproducibility of the test was relatively good ( r = 0.68 ; p less than .01 ) , but significantly better ( r = 0.93 ; p less than .0001 ) when taking into consideration the bladder volume at test start and the diuresis during the test . when compared with the pad-weighing test , the stress test and voiding-cystourethrography gave false negative results in approximately half the cases . the one-hour pad-weighing test was found to be practical and useful in quantifying the degree of leakage in women with urinary incontinence . 
cervical cryotherapy for condylomata acuminata during pregnancy . twenty-eight patients were treated by cryotherapy for cervical condylomata acuminata during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy . most required two treatment sessions before the condylomata resolved . all women responded favorably and none had residual disease at six weeks ' postpartum . no neonate was affected . cryotherapy for cervical condylomata acuminata had no identifiable adverse effect on pregnancy . there were no cases of rupture of membranes or labor starting as a consequence of treatment . there was no scarring to the cervix and deliveries were normal . we conclude that cryotherapy for cervical condylomata acuminata is an effective and safe procedure during the last two-thirds of pregnancy . 
vaginal prostaglandin e1 analogue ( ono-802 ) to soften the cervix in first trimester abortion . cervical softening by vaginal administration of a prostaglandin e1 analogue ( ono-802 ) was studied in a double-blind , placebo-controlled study using an objective measure of cervical resistance in 121 women undergoing first trimester induced abortion . three hours after administration , cervical resistance in control and treated patients did not differ significantly in nulliparous women but did in parous women . 
prospective evaluation of a risk scoring system for predicting preterm delivery in black inner city women . nine percent of united states births are preterm . the ability to efficiently identify women destined to deliver before term would enable obstetricians to initiate early intervention . the papiernik-creasy risk scoring system is being extensively applied for this purpose , without prospective validation in this country . we evaluated prospectively its ability to predict high risk women in a black inner city population , when applied once early in pregnancy . the system , based on social , past medical , and current pregnancy problems , failed to identify at-risk patients . adjusting the score cutoff and reweighting factors with discriminate analysis did not improve the predictive value . analysis of an additional 60 social , demographic , and medical factors failed to produce a useful alternative risk assessment tool . we suggest that risk scoring systems such as these may not be helpful in socioeconomically at-risk populations . 
effects of sitting position on uterine activity during labor . to determine which components of uterine activity are affected by different positions of labor , 116 intrauterine pressure records in the sitting and supine positions were analyzed in order to measure resting , contraction , and bearing down pressures . the resting pressure in the sitting position showed consistent elevation compared to the supine position , while the contraction pressure did not differ strikingly in the two positions . the bearing down pressure in the sitting position for nulliparas during the second stage and for multiparas at the time of the 8- to 10-cm dilation was significantly higher than that in the supine position . also , the sitting position led to a significantly shorter duration of the second stage in nulliparas and the 5- to 10-cm dilation period in multiparas . these findings suggest that the maternal position does not affect uterine contractility , that the increased resting pressure in the sitting position is of some importance in supplementing the downward delivery force , and that the increased bearing down pressure in the sitting position could help to significantly shorten the duration of labor . 
comparison of uterine activity induced by nipple stimulation and oxytocin . intermittent nipple stimulation has been proposed as a substitute for exogenous oxytocin infusion in the performance of contraction stress tests . to compare the uterine activity produced by these two methods , we studied a group of 45 term pregnant women undergoing indicated inductions of labor . twenty-five patients had nipple stimulation and 20 patients received oxytocin infusions according to a study protocol . the two groups were similar in all obstetric parameters . pre- and posttest uterine activity was measured by internal tocodynamometry and quantified in montevideo units . a significant increase in uterine activity occurred in both groups ( p less than .01 ) . regular uterine activity ( three contractions in ten minutes ) was achieved more rapidly ( p less than .005 ) , but at a lower level ( p less than .001 ) in the nipple stimulation group . pre- and posttest tonus did not change significantly in either group . in the nipple stimulation group , five patients ( 20 % ) did not achieve adequate contraction patterns after 15 stimulation-rest cycles ( a total of 110 minutes ) and three subjects ( 12 % ) experienced uterine hyperstimulation . these observations suggest that exogenous oxytocin and intermittent nipple stimulation may not have equivalent effects on uterine contractility . therefore , it may not be justified to substitute one technique for the other or to use the same criteria for interpretation of contraction stress tests produced by both techniques . 
cardiovascular and uterine blood flow changes during nicardipine hcl tocolysis in the rabbit . we studied the changes in cardiovascular performance and uterine blood flow during treatment with nicardipine hcl , a recently developed calcium entry blocker . pregnant rabbits were surgically prepared for monitoring of uterine activity and blood flow measurements on day 24-26 of gestation . on day 29 of gestation , regular uterine activity was induced and then treated by intravenous nicardipine hcl infusion . measurements were made before induction of labor and before and after tocolysis . nicardipine hcl treatment was associated with a rise in pulse rate and concomitant fall in mean arterial pressure . while there was a significant ( greater than 40 % ) increase in cardiac output during tocolysis , there was also a fall in uteroplacental blood flow . the significance of these changes and their implications for fetal well-being need further investigation before clinical studies can begin . 
cardiovascular and tocolytic effects of nicardipine hcl in the pregnant rabbit : comparison with ritodrine hcl . the effects of two dosage schedules of nicardipine , a calcium-entry blocker , were studied in the pregnant rabbit during induced preterm uterine contractions and compared with the effects of ritodrine hydrochloride . uterine activity was inhibited by all treatment regimens , but the most significant inhibition was achieved by the higher dose of nicardipine , which nearly abolished all uterine activity . however , while maternal tachycardia and hypotension were observed during treatment with each of these medications , the most significant drop in blood pressure occurred with high-dose nicardipine . these findings may indicate that nicardipine is a potent tocolytic agent with side effects similar in degree , but of different etiology , than those seen with ritodrine . additional studies to clarify the effect of nicardipine tocolysis on the fetus are needed before it can be considered for use in human pregnancy . 
thermic effects of tocolytic agents : decreased temperature with magnesium sulfate . the effect of the tocolytic agents terbutaline and magnesium sulfate on patients ' temperatures was examined . fifty-two women admitted for preterm labor were randomized to a treatment protocol for one of the two agents . oral temperatures were measured initially and every two hours during treatment . there was no significant difference between the initial temperature and the lowest temperature recorded during treatment in the terbutaline group , but temperature decreased significantly during treatment with magnesium sulfate . this decrease in maternal temperature may have importance in the treatment of preterm labor with magnesium sulfate in patients with an infectious etiology for uterine activity . 
venous thromboembolism in relation to oral contraceptive use . the relation of the risk of venous thromboembolism to the use of oral contraceptives was assessed in a hospital-based study of 61 women suffering from a first episode of idiopathic deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism ( cases ) and 1278 women admitted for trauma or respiratory infections ( controls ) . twenty ( 33 % ) of the cases and 121 ( 9 % ) of the controls had used oral contraceptives within the previous month , yielding an age-adjusted relative risk estimate of 8.1 ( 95 % confidence interval 3.7 to 18 ) for recent users relative to never-users . for women using oral contraceptives containing less than 50 micrograms estrogen , the relative risk estimate was 11 ( 3.7 to 22 ) ; for preparations with 50 micrograms estrogen , it was 5.5 ( 2.1 to 15 ) ; and for preparations with more than 50 micrograms estrogen , it was 11 ( 3.9 to 30 ) . past use of oral contraceptives was not associated with an increased risk . the data suggest that the risk of venous thromboembolism is increased for recent oral contraceptive users relative to nonusers , even if women use oral contraceptives containing low doses of estrogen . confidence intervals were wide , however , so that a reduction in the risk for users of lower dose formulations relative to users of higher dose formulations cannot be ruled out . selection bias , if present , would have resulted in overestimation of the relative risk , but should not have distorted the comparisons according to dosage . 
luteal phase defect and premenstrual syndrome in an infertile population . to test the hypothesis that an abnormal luteal phase is associated with significant symptoms of premenstrual syndrome , psychologic and somatic premenstrual syndrome symptoms were evaluated in a group of 83 infertile patients undergoing timed endometrial biopsy for the assessment of luteal phase adequacy . the severity of psychologic and somatic symptoms was evaluated separately . it was found that luteal phase defect , defined by endometrial biopsy , was associated with less severe psychologic and no more severe somatic symptoms of premenstrual syndrome in comparison with normal luteal phase controls . the data suggest that the hormonal milieu associated with luteal phase defects does not correlate with premenstrual syndrome symptoms and do not support the hypothesis that suboptimal ovarian function causes premenstrual syndrome . 
delivery of antifibroblast agents as adjuncts to filtration surgery . part i--periocular clearance of cobalt-57 bleomycin in experimental drug delivery : pilot study in the rabbit . antitumor and antifibroblast agents show promise as adjuncts after glaucoma filtration surgery in reducing postoperative scarring and failure . we used nuclear imaging in rabbits to investigate periocular clearance of one such agent ( 57co-bleomycin ) . sub-tenon injection was compared to other delivery techniques . our results showed that a collagen sponge and a silastic disc implant with a microhole prolonged drug delivery when compared to sub-tenon injection alone or injection with a viscosity enhancing agent ( 0.5 % sodium hyaluronate ) . we theorize that if an antifibroblast agent can be delivered in small and sustained amounts after filtration surgery , this may prolong bleb longevity and avoid unnecessary drug toxicity . 
transorbital penetrating injuries to the frontal lobe . three cases of transorbital penetrating trauma to the frontal lobe are reported . these cases are remarkable in that minimal ocular trauma was incurred and excellent vision was preserved . these cases underscore the importance of suspecting the possibility of intracranial injury when evaluating penetrating orbital trauma . 
management of the opacified posterior lens capsule : an excision technique for membranous changes . in 16 patients ranging from six months to 85 years a membranous-changed posterior lens capsule was partially excised during an originally extracapsular-planned lens surgery . after removing the lens contents the anterior chamber was filled with sodium hyaluronate . the opacified posterior capsule was punctiformly opened and the retrolenticular space widened with sodium hyaluronate , too . the isolated posterior capsule could be excised with microscissors without damaging the corneal endothelium or the anterior vitreous face . integrity of the vitreous was preserved in 94 % of the operated eyes . the described technique can be regarded as the method of choice for management of solid capsular opacities in infants and may be also helpful in some cases of membranous capsular changes in adults . 
effect of therapeutic ultrasound on intraocular lenses . high intensity , focused ultrasound energy is currently being evaluated as a therapy for glaucoma . the energy is delivered through conjunctiva and sclera to the pars plicata . the haptics of intraocular lenses may erode into the pars plicata , and we were therefore prompted to study the effects of ultrasound energy on intraocular lenses . the energy is highly absorbed by polymethylmethacrylate ( pmma ) , resulting in partial melting , vacuolization , and opacification of this material at intensities much lower than those used in the glaucoma treatment . polypropylene absorbed much less of the energy , resulting in relatively minor morphologic changes with this material . we recommend caution in using this device in eyes with anterior chamber intraocular lenses and eyes with posterior chamber intraocular lenses having pmma haptics . 
argon laser treatment of trichiasis . this paper presents the application of argon laser in the treatment of trichiasis . the technique involves the destruction of the follicles of the abnormal cilia . a beam of 50- to 200-micron spot size , 0.1- to 0.2 second time , and 1 , 000 to 1 , 200 mw power is used under local anesthesia . this method proved safe , convenient , precise , and effective in 11 cases . the technique is most suitable when a few fine cilia are involved , but repeated treatment may be required for more and thicker eyelashes . the follow-up period in this study varied from a minimum of four months to a maximum of nine months . 
the development of a new tissue expander for use in ophthalmic plastic surgery . we describe the first-time use of the tissue expansion principle in oculoplastic surgery . we have designed a tissue expander for use in eyelid surgery . this instrument was successfully used to treat difficult cases of cicatricial ectropion from multiple causes , avoiding the need for tissue grafting . it was also utilized preoperatively so a large forehead scar could be removed with good resultant cosmesis . the potential for this device in oculoplastic surgery is exciting . 
effectivity of laser ridge intraocular lenses . two hundred fifty intraocular lenses with varying sizes of laser ridges were implanted following extracapsular cataract surgery to determine the effectivity of the laser ridge in creating a space between the intraocular lens and the posterior capsule . six weeks post-operatively , the distance between the intraocular lens and the posterior capsule was judged as adequate in 92 % of cases with a .35 mm ridge , 88 % cases with a .25 mm ridge , and 80 % of those with a .15 mm ridge . a group of non-angulated , non-ridged lenses placed out of the capsular bag had an adequate space in 82 % of cases , and a group of non-angulated , non-ridged lenses placed in the capsular bag had only 44 % adequate spaces . intraocular lenses with laser ridges should be used to enhance the space between the intraocular lens and the posterior capsule , thus increasing the safety of postoperative nd : yag laser posterior capsulotomy . 
medical malpractice litigation in ophthalmology : the new jersey experience . one hundred twenty-one medical malpractice claims against ophthalmologists are analyzed with respect to the specific allegation , the ophthalmic cause of litigation , and disposition . failure or delay in diagnosis was responsible for 35 % of claims and 63 % of patient indemnification . allegations of failure to diagnose most commonly concerned retinal detachment . while an identical number of claims were closed with payment because of errors in treatment , the indemnity for these claims was less by a factor of nearly half . the greatest number of claims alleging negligent treatment involved complications of cataract surgery . 
caution re gills ' transconjunctival injection technique [ letter ] 
a fixed caliper for vitreous surgery . 
complicated fractures . 
continuous passive motion with joint fractures and infections . 
dislocations and fracture dislocations of the tarsometatarsal joints . dislocations and fracture-dislocations of the tarsometatarsal joints are potentially disabling injuries that present challenging therapeutic problems . early recognition is imperative and is based on a familiarity with the important anatomic features of this joint , mechanism of injury , and subtle radiographic changes that often accompany these lesions . following injury , a precise anatomic reduction of the tarsometatarsal joint is critical if long-term disability is to be avoided . there appears to be a direct correlation between achieving an accurate reduction and a satisfactory clinical result . in our experience , surgical reduction offers the most effective and reliable means of achieving this goal . we have presented an approach for the management of these lesions , which we believe offers advantages over previously described techniques . our experience has shown that accurate anatomic operative reduction and rigid internal fixation provide an increased assurance of a pain-free , durable , and functional foot in the great majority of cases . 
intra-articular distal humeral fractures in adults . this article describes a technique of open reduction and internal fixation of intra-articular fractures of the distal humerus in adults . the historical treatment of these fractures is surveyed , including current classification systems . anatomy is reviewed , specifically as it pertains to surgical intervention . the results in 23 consecutive patients stabilized through an intra-articular olecranon osteotomy exposure are reported . 
distal femoral fractures . distal femoral fractures may be treated by operative or nonoperative methods . there is no single surgical implant that can be used for all distal femoral fractures . implant selection is determined by fracture pattern , patient age , bone density , and other injuries that the patient may have sustained . rewarding results may be obtained with operative fracture intervention when appropriate patient and implant selection is made and the surgeon demonstrates meticulous skill and sound judgment . 
comminuted femoral shaft fractures . comminuted femoral shaft fractures are often grouped with more simple femoral fractures for study . although union always occurs , shortening and angulation can result from closed treatment using traction and cast bracing . operative intervention using locked intramedullary nails can lead to a consistently excellent outcome when the performance of the procedure is technically correct . the surgical procedure can eliminate a difficult management problem in multiply-injured patients . 
dislocation of the knee . the complications of knee dislocations may be disastrous and must be anticipated . in most series , a 25 to 30 per cent incidence of arterial damage is reported . if the artery is not repaired , the incidence of amputation can be up to 72.5 per cent . the popliteal artery should be evaluated and vascular repair performed as needed . this must be completed within a 6 to 8-hour period after injury for optimal results . peroneal nerve injuries are common , and permanent neurologic damage may result . the neurovascular injury should be well documented both at the time of injury and in the preinjury state . after all problems affecting limb survival are solved , open repair of all ligamentous injuries is recommended to provide ligamentous stability and congruity of the joint . prior to performing the procedure , a surgeon must have a thorough knowledge of the anatomy of the knee . rehabilitation techniques and early postoperative motion are important for guiding the injured patient through the immediate and late postoperative period . 
the unstable pelvic fracture . operative treatment . while the pendulum has swung to the operative side , open reduction and internal fixation will surely not prove to be the panacea for all unstable pelvic fractures . the lasting effects , however , of attempts at aggressive fixation of the pelvic fracture will be the principles of management that are being established . this begins with the recognition of pelvic instability . it is in these unstable injuries that obtaining and maintaining an anatomic reduction is the best way to alter the natural history of the untreated pelvic fracture and to maximize the probability of obtaining a good long-term result . while the actual methods of internal and external fixation will continue to change , this principle is unlikely to alter . therefore , if effective treatment can be achieved by closed means alone , that is an acceptable method . similarly , external , internal , and combined operative and traction treatment methods that achieve this goal would also be acceptable . the question remains : which method achieves the goal of obtaining and maintaining an anatomic reduction yet minimizes the early and late morbidity ? this question is best answered by appropriate preoperative evaluation , subsequent planning , and precise , technically skillful surgery done by an experienced surgeon . 
fractures of the acetabulum . open reduction and internal fixation should now be considered the treatment of choice for most displaced fractures . the efficacy of this therapeutic approach is a function of improved fracture assessment coupled with advances in surgical exposure and stabilization techniques . a predictably high rate of good functional outcomes can now be expected , even in complex fracture patterns . it should be remembered , however , that this surgery is among the most demanding in orthopedics . extensive study of general principles and techniques is necessary , and individual case preparation must be exhaustive . early experience is probably best restricted to elemental fracture patterns . in this manner , both patient and surgeon may rely on a positive outcome . 
ipsilateral femoral shaft and hip fractures . a midshaft femoral fracture in a high-energy trauma victim should prompt the orthopedist to search carefully for an ipsilateral fracture of the femoral neck . this fracture will be present in 5 per cent of patients , and the incidence may be increasing . management of the femoral neck fracture should include emergent capsulotomy , anatomic reduction , and rigid fixation with compression . management of the femoral shaft should not interfere with these goals because of the risk of post-traumatic necrosis of the femoral head . successful methods of management of the femoral shaft fracture have included compression plating , retrograde kuntscher nailing , and interlocking nails . approaches to the treatment of concomitant intertrochanteric and femoral shaft fractures should be selected according to the skill and experience of the surgeon and the availability of equipment . 
fractures of the tibial plafond . the pilon fracture . the fracture of the tibial plafond or pilon fracture is an uncommon but difficult fracture to manage . fracture of the plafond occurs when the talus is driven into the tibia from axial compression . the type of fracture that occurs will depend on the position and rotation of the foot at the time of impact . historically , these fractures have been treated in a number of manners , but the best results have occurred when stable internal fixation is accomplished using plates and screws . basic steps in reconstruction are restoration of anatomic length of the fibula with plate fixation , reconstruction of the tibial articular surface , cancellous bone grafting of the metaphyseal defect , and buttress plating either anteriorly or medially of the distal tibia . if anatomic reconstruction of the joint surface can be restored and stable fixation achieved , early motion of the ankle is made possible . this early motion reduces stiffness of the ankle and will yield the most satisfying results . 
malignant tumors of the major salivary glands . a total of 512 patients with major salivary gland tumors were treated at our institution between the years 1960 to 1975. the 147 cases of malignant salivary gland tumors were reviewed according to presenting characteristics and stage , histology , and outcome . treatment for each type is summarized . the battery of diagnostic aids and prognostic indicators available to the physician are also reviewed . the newer and more controversial procedures of ct scanning , nuclear magnetic resonance scanning , and fine-needle aspiration are discussed in detail . in the past , salivary gland tumors have been classified by histology alone . current trends employ the tnm staging system in planning treatment and predicting end results . we have found a far better survival rate in patients with various tumor types presenting with stage i or ii disease , but point out that patients with high-grade tumors often present with advanced disease . all major salivary gland tumors should be approached according to the principles of cancer surgery . the minimum procedure is thus superficial or total parotidectomy with preservation of the facial nerve . in low-grade malignancies , the diagnostic procedure will have accomplished this definitive treatment . salivary gland tumors are rare in the pediatric population . such malignancies often defy radical treatment . although cure rates in many categories of high-grade tumors are low , the only hope for survival is an initial aggressive surgical approach . although radiation was used for recurrent disease only during the years of this study , it is currently being used as adjuvant therapy in almost all malignancies except low-grade mucoepidermoid . recurrences are almost always fatal . 
nonsquamous tumors of the head and neck ii . 
difficult decisions in parotid surgery . six atypical case presentations of parotid tumors are presented along with solutions proposed by two experts on the topic . the differences and similarities of the opinions expressed are summarized and discussed by the editor . 
juvenile nasopharyngeal angiofibroma . jna is a highly vascular , benign , yet locally invasive tumor that occurs in preadolescent males . diagnosis is based on history , physical examination , and radiographic findings . ct scanning is invaluable for evaluating tumor extent . angiography combined with embolization aids surgeons in identifying the main feeding vessels and decreasing intraoperative blood loss . surgery is the mainstay of therapy with radiation therapy reserved for inoperable masses . for highly aggressive , recurrent angiofibroma , chemotherapy has shown some promise . 
surgical treatment of hyperparathyroidism . during the past decade , major advances have been made in many crucial areas of the surgical management of hyperparathyroidism . an up-to-date protocol is presented and stresses preoperative localization , operative technique , intraoperative diagnosis , cryopreservation , and autotransplantation designed for practical application . 
paragangliomas of the head and neck . nonchromaffin paragangliomas of the head and neck are usually benign , slow-growing lesions arising from neural crest tissue . although uncommon , these neoplasms should always be considered in the differential diagnosis of a neck mass . the diagnostic and therapeutic challenges posed by these lesions require continued clinical attention . 
skull base chordomas . chordomas are rare , benign tumors of the nasopharynx . because of their location at the skull base , removal of these tumors is usually subtotal . described is the transcervical-transmandibular approach to the skull base which can be employed in removing these tumors . 
a finite element model for the design of local skin flaps . a finite element model for the design of local skin flaps has been developed . this model , in spite of many limitations , provides an improved way to design local skin flaps . with improvements , the model could be used to plan surgical reconstructions in patients . 
quantification of changes in myofascial trigger point sensitivity with the pressure algometer following passive stretch . in order to determine the relationship between trigger point sensitivity and the referred symptoms of myofascial pain , vas ratings of referred pain intensity and pressure algometer measures of myofascial trigger point sensitivity were taken pre and post treatment of the muscle containing the trigger point with passive stretch . the results in 20 subjects , experiencing unilateral or bilateral myofascial head and neck pain , showed that myofascial trigger point sensitivity decreases in response to passive stretch as assessed by the pressure algometer , and that trigger point sensitivity and intensity of referred pain are related . 
angina pectoris in type a and type b cardiac patients . the type a behavior pattern is characterized by excessive competitive drive , a sense of time urgency , enhanced aggressiveness , hostility and a persistent desire for recognition . type a behaviour is widely recognized as a risk factor in coronary heart disease . this study investigated whether type as and bs differ in their experience of pain and pain coping efforts . a group of type a ( n = 35 ) and a group of type b ( n = 19 ) cardiac disease patients served as subjects . all subjects underwent diagnostic treadmill testing and were compared on a variety of pain measures . there were no differences between type as and bs in age , sex , presence of state or trait anxiety or severity of cardiac disease . type a patients , however , were much more likely than type bs to be classified on the new york heart association ( nyha ) functional angina scale as having more severe pain and functional limitation . type as were also less likely to use pain coping strategies to deal with their pain . those who assess pain and functional impairment in cardiac patients using the nyha scale should be aware that type a personality characteristics may affect their assessments . type a patients who tend to make little use of pain coping strategies may benefit from systematic training in pain control methods . additional research is needed to examine whether type a-b differences in pain and pain coping strategies may affect risks of coronary morbidity and mortality . 
convergence of cutaneous , tooth pulp , visceral , neck and muscle afferents onto nociceptive and non-nociceptive neurones in trigeminal subnucleus caudalis ( medullary dorsal horn ) and its implications for referred pain . because of the likely involvement of central convergence of afferent inputs in mechanisms underlying referred pain , the activity of single neurones was recorded in the cat 's trigeminal ( v ) subnucleus caudalis ( medullary dorsal horn ) to test for the presence and extent of convergent inputs to the neurones . in chloralose-anaesthetized or decerebrate unanaesthetized cats , electrical stimuli were applied to afferents supplying facial skin , oral mucosa , canine and premolar tooth pulp , laryngeal mucosa , cervical skin and muscle , and jaw and tongue muscles , and tactile and noxious mechanical and thermal stimuli were applied to skin and mucosa . considerable proportions of caudalis neurones which could be functionally classified on the basis of their cutaneous receptive field properties as low-threshold mechanoreceptive ( ltm ) , wide-dynamic-range ( wdr ) , or nociceptive-specific ( ns ) neurones , could be excited by electrical stimulation of several of these afferent inputs . extensive convergence of afferent inputs , including inputs from skin or mucosal areas outside the neuronal oral-facial receptive field delineated by natural stimuli , was a particular feature of the units classified as cutaneous nociceptive neurones ( i.e. , wdr and ns ) . on the basis of antidromic activation , 15 % of these wdr and ns neurones were shown to have a direct projection to the contralateral thalamus . the findings question the use of terminology and classifications of somatosensory neurones based only on the cutaneous receptive field properties of the neurones since distinctions between the different neuronal populations become less obvious when properties other than those related to cutaneous afferent inputs are taken into account . moreover , the observations of extensive convergence of different types of afferents , which was especially apparent in cutaneous nociceptive neurones , also suggest a role for these neurones in mediating deep pain and in spread and referral of pain . 
nociception in pigeons is not impaired by capsaicin . in order to examine the sensitivity of the nociceptive system of birds to capsaicin , the algesic potency of the drug was compared with that of veratridine and mustard oil by instillation into the eye of conscious pigeons and guinea-pigs . in guinea-pigs , 10 ( -6 ) g / ml capsaicin provoked severe protective reactions , but even high concentrations of 10 ( -2 ) g / ml were insufficient in pigeons . veratridine and mustard oil induced similar reactions in both species . close arterial injections of algesic substances revealed that the threshold dose of capsaicin for cardiovascular and nocifensive reactions was 10 , 000-fold higher in pigeons ( 200 micrograms ) than in guinea-pigs ( 0.02 micrograms ) . all other algesic substances tested ( bradykinin , 5-ht , veratridine and kcl ) had similar thresholds in both species . slow infusion of a total dose of 600 mg / kg capsaicin into the radial artery of pigeons did not alter the sensitivity to any of the algesic substances tested , which demonstrates that even high concentrations of capsaicin have no desensitizing effect . the demonstrated insensitivity of pigeons to the algesic effect of capsaicin is discussed in the context of the inability of the drug to deplete substance p ( sp ) from afferent terminals in the spinal cord of the pigeon . 
the role of self-efficacy expectancies in the prediction of pain tolerance . the association of self-efficacy expectancies with pain tolerance on the cold pressor test was examined during treatment conditions of setting quotas alone and in conjunction with monetary reinforcement and placebos in 64 college volunteers . it was found that quota setting was an effective means of increasing cold pressor pain tolerance . the addition of monetary reinforcement of quota achievement did not enhance performance , while the addition of a placebo decreased the effectiveness of quota setting . self-efficacy expectancies were significantly correlated with pain tolerance times and were better predictors of tolerance than pain ratings . self-efficacy expectancies and pain tolerance times at treatment were both found to predict 1 week follow-up performance . 
re : is calcitonin an analgesic agent ? [ letter ] 
report of the second task force on blood pressure control in children--1987 . task force on blood pressure control in children . national heart , lung , and blood institute , bethesda , maryland . although the prevalence of clinical hypertension is of a far lesser magnitude in children than adults , there is ample evidence to support the concept that the roots of essential hypertension extend back into childhood . prospective cohort data that could yield precise information about the relationship between childhood bp and cardiovascular risk are not yet available . nonetheless , high bp in children represents a significant clinical problem which in 1977 was comprehensively addressed by the task force on blood pressure control in children . contained herein , 10 years later , is the revised version of the original task force report including normative bp data derived from sampling more than 70 , 000 children , as well as advice on methodology and instrumentation for bp measurement , guidelines for detecting children with high bp , and strategies for appropriate diagnostic evaluation and pharmacologic and nonpharmacologic treatment . 
interventions in preschools to increase the use of safety restraints by preschool children . despite the proven safety value of wearing vehicle safety restraints , people continue to travel without this protection . legislation requiring the use of safety restraints has been implemented in several countries , including australia , in an attempt to improve rates of restraint use . in australia , legislation dramatically increased rates of adult restraint use , yet the rate of restraint use by children remains comparatively low . one of the main reasons for parents not restraining their child is the child 's dislike of wearing a restraint , with resultant disruptive behavior . this study compared two interventions implemented within preschools : a coercive intervention aimed at parents and an educational intervention aimed at preschool children . measures of restraint use were made by direct observation at preschools prior to intervention and again immediately following the 2-week interventions . the safety restraint use of children in the control and coercive intervention groups did not change significantly as a result of intervention . restraint use of children in the educational intervention group increased 15 percentage points from 60.6 % to 75.0 % : a significant increase of 25 % . this novel intervention approach holds promise as a means of increasing preschool children 's use of safety restraints . 
maternal depression : a concern for pediatricians . maternal depression is common in clinical experience but has not been fully addressed in the pediatric literature . depression can refer to either depressive symptoms or a diagnosable depression . depression among mothers occurs frequently , is persistent , and is related to other factors such as low social class and marital disharmony . studies demonstrate an association between a mother 's depression and adverse outcomes for her child including low birth weight , behavior problems , somatic complaints , poor growth , accidents , and affective illness . affect and child-rearing characteristics of depressed mothers seem to be important factors in mediating these poor outcomes . pediatricians have a special role in helping depressed mothers and their children . 
health care needs of indochinese refugee teenagers . although 50 % of indochinese refugees are under 18 years of age , previous studies have emphasized the prevalence of parasites , anemia , tuberculosis , and hepatitis , with few addressing age-related health care needs . in this study the specific health care needs of 80 indochinese refugee teenagers , evaluated during a 4-year period , were determined . the centers for disease control 's suggested screening measures were used , and it was found that 52 % had positive purified protein derivative skin tests , 38 % lacked immunizations , 35 % had stool specimens positive for parasites ( prevalence and number of parasites greatest among cambodians ) , 14 % had blood tests positive for hepatitis b surface antigen , and 10 % were anemic . additional evaluations showed that 19 % had hemoglobinopathies , 14 % were in or below the fifth percentile for height and weight , 12 % had goiters , 12 % had skin disorders , 8 % had positive hepatitis b surface antigen , 5 % had visual defects , 5 % had hearing loss , 5 % had psychosomatic illness , and 4 % had idiopathic scoliosis . although suggested centers for disease control screening measures may be adequate for younger indochinese children , these data suggest that additional studies are necessary for teenagers . for the sexually active adolescent , identification of and counseling for hepatitis antigenemia and hemoglobinopathies are crucial . in addition , early identification of emotional and physical problems during screening may enhance assimilation into a new society and facilitate completion of the psychosocial tasks of adolescence . 
silver-russell syndrome with unusual findings . 
vesicoureteral reflux in asymptomatic siblings of patients with known reflux : radionuclide cystography . the familial nature of vesicoureteral reflux among siblings of patients with vesicoureteral reflux has been reported to be from 8 % to 32 % . these included both symptomatic and asymptomatic siblings . the incidence of vesicoureteral reflux in asymptomatic siblings , however , has not been studied extensively . sixty asymptomatic siblings of patients known to have vesicoureteral reflux were studied with radionuclide voiding cystography . their ages ranged from 2 months to 15 years ( mean , 4.2 years ) . vesicoureteral reflux was detected in 27 of 60 ( 45 % ) of the siblings . vesicoureteral reflux was unilateral in 15 and bilateral in 12 of the siblings . radionuclide cystography is more sensitive than radiographic cystography and results in a very low radiation dose to the patient . the gonadal dose with radionuclide cystography is only 1.0 to 2.0 mrads . because of these features , radionuclide cystography is a nearly ideal technique for the diagnosis of vesicoureteral reflux in siblings of patients with known vesicoureteral reflux . all siblings ( symptomatic or asymptomatic ) of patients with known vesicoureteral reflux should have a screening radionuclide cystography . 
kernicterus research and the basic sciences : a prospect for future development [ editorial ] 
transdermal patch poisoning [ letter ] 
sudden infant death syndrome [ letter ] 
high-frequency ventilation and tracheal injuries [ letter ] 
intravascular injection of long-acting penicillin [ letter ] 
tactile / kinesthetic stimulation effects on preterm neonates [ letter ] 
who says there is a handgun epidemic ? [ letter ] 
aspiration of makeshift pacifier [ letter ] 
errors in drug administration [ letter ] 
is chronic lung disease in low birth weight infants preventable ? a survey of eight centers . chronic lung disease in prematurely born infants , defined as the need for increased inspired oxygen at 28 days of age , was thought to be more common in some institutions than in others . to test this hypothesis , we surveyed the experience in the intensive care nurseries at columbia and vanderbilt universities , the universities of texas at dallas , washington at seattle , and california at san francisco , the brigham and women 's hospital in boston , texas children 's hospital in houston , and mt sinai hospital in toronto . the survey included 1 , 625 infants with birth weights of 700 to 1 , 500 g . we confirmed the relationship of risk to low birth weight , white race , and male sex . significant differences in the incidence of chronic lung disease were found between institutions even when birth weight , race , and sex were taken into consideration through a multivariate logistic regression analysis . columbia had one of the best outcomes for low birth weight infants and the lowest incidence of chronic lung disease . 
optimal thermal management for low birth weight infants nursed under high-powered radiant warmers . servocontrol of skin temperature for the critically ill premature neonate nursed on a radiant warmer bed has been assumed to be analogous to skin temperature control for infants nursed in convection-warmed incubators . there are significant differences between these two warming techniques , and no definitive data exist to aid the clinical specialist in governing radiant warmer control . eighteen low birth weight premature infants less than 2 weeks of age were studied under powerful overhead radiant warmers to determine the optimal skin temperature for servocontrol of radiant heater output . anterior abdominal wall temperature was servocontrolled at 35.5 degrees , 36.5 degrees , and 37.5 degrees c in a randomized fashion for three periods of 90 minutes each after thermal equilibrium was established . oxygen consumption was measured during the entire 90-min sample period at each temperature by a computerized metabolic apparatus to determine the optimal thermal neutral control temperature defined as minimal oxygen consumption with normal body temperature . skin , deep rectal , and environmental temperature measurements , as well as behavior assessments , were made concurrently . oxygen consumption was significantly elevated at 35.5 degrees c ( 8.62 + / - 0.73 ml / kg / min , mean + / - sem ) compared with 36.5 degrees c ( 7.30 + / - 0.55 ml / kg / min ) . changing servocontrol temperature to 37.5 degrees c produced no further significant decrease in oxygen consumption ( 7.41 + / - 0.70 ml / kg / min ) , and nine infants manifested supranormal deep rectal temperatures ( greater than 37.5 degrees c ) . optimal abdominal skin temperature control at 36.5 degrees c ( slightly warmer than previously reported but less than 37.5 degrees c ) is recommended for premature neonates nursed on radiant warmer beds . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
childhood upper respiratory tract infections : to what degree is incidence affected by day-care attendance ? risk factors for acute upper respiratory tract disease in childhood were evaluated in a population-based sample of the atlanta metropolitan area . mothers from 449 households containing 575 children less than 5 years of age were selected by random-digit dialing and questioned about upper respiratory tract infection and ear infection occurring in their children during the preceding 2 weeks . household demographic and socioeconomic characteristics , maternal smoking history and child day-care attendance and breast-feeding information were also obtained . for children less than 5 years of age , the reported incidence of upper respiratory tract infection was 24 % , and of ear infection , 6 % . controlling for the other variables measured , day-care attendance was associated with a significantly increased risk of both illnesses . for upper respiratory tract infection , increased risk was present for all children attending day care ( p = .02 , odds ratio = 1.6 ) , whereas for ear infection , risk could be demonstrated only for full-time attendees ( p = .005 , odds ratio = 3.8 ) . maternal smoking was a second independent risk factor for a child 's having upper respiratory tract infection ( odds ratio = 1.7 , p = .01 ) . thirty-one percent of all upper respiratory tract infection among day-care attendees and 66 % of all ear infections among full-time day-care attendees were attributable to day-care attendance . given the proportion of children in day care , 9 % to 14 % of the total burden of upper respiratory tract disease in this population was day care related . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
epidemiology of school injuries : a 2-year experience in a municipal health department . school injuries occurring in a municipal school system during a 2-year period were reviewed to identify epidemiologic features of school injuries , to determine data requirements for ongoing injury surveillance , and to identify potential preventive strategies . overall , 3 , 009 injuries were reported ( 2.82 / 100 students per year ) . elementary school students had only a slightly higher rate ( 2.85 ) than secondary school students ( 2.78 ) . however , the cause , nature , school location of injury , and body area injured formed distinct patterns in these two groups . playgrounds were responsible for the highest overall and elementary school rates , whereas sports areas and classrooms had the highest rates among secondary school students . falls were the most frequent cause of injury in elementary schools whereas , as expected , sports injuries were the most frequent cause among secondary school students . contusions and abrasions of the head were the most frequent type of injury for both groups , although more common among elementary school students , whereas fractures , sprains , strains , and dislocations were more frequent among secondary school students . although the proportion of severe injuries to secondary school students was slightly higher ( 39 v 35 % ) , the rate of referral of students to a hospital or physicians among secondary school students ( 1.21 per 100 student-hours ) was almost twice the rate of elementary school students ( 0.65 per 100 student-hours ) . problems with definition of injury severity and the need to explore the social aspects of schools as a factor in injuries emerged as important considerations for future research . 
medicolegal problems in the management of cardiac arrhythmias in children . malpractice actions against pediatricians treating patients with arrhythmias have been recurrent in four general areas . optimal medical management may not be widely recognized . cases illustrating the following concepts are presented . intravenous verapamil therapy in babies may cause apnea , hypotension , and bradycardia ; continued episodes of atrial flutter in a child may cause sudden death ; quinidine may be related to the death ; children with " familial seizure disorders " may in fact have the long qt interval syndrome . the qt interval must be measured on the ecg in patients with unexplained seizures ; " supraventricular tachycardia with aberration " is uncommon in children . rapid heart rates with qrs complexes that are different from the sinus complexes are likely to be ventricular tachycardia . these situations must be recognized as potential problems and must be treated appropriately . 
health insurance coverage and physician use among children with disabilities : findings from probability samples in five metropolitan areas . the effect of insurance coverage on physician use for children in the united states who have been identified as disabled by their schools under the provisions of the education for all handicapped children act ( pl 94-142 ) is examined . the research is based on identically drawn stratified random samples of children from the elementary school special education populations of five large metropolitan school systems . it was found that health insurance coverage was a predictor of whether a disabled child had seen a doctor in the past year even after adjustment for site , family background characteristics , type and severity of childhood disability , and structural access factors ( adjusted odds ratio , 1.76 , p less than .05 ) ; hispanic children with disabilities were more likely than white children to be without any health insurance ( adjusted odds ratio , 3.63 ; p less than .001 ) , but there was no similar statistically significant difference between blacks and whites ; and wide variations persist in scope of insurance payment for care , such that parents of publicly insured children paid out of pocket for only 5 % of all physician visits as compared to 30 % of visits for the privately insured . even for children with various low-prevalence disabilities , when privately insured , parents paid out of pocket for 23 % of all physician visits . these data help clarify the extent of health insurance coverage among children with disabilities and indicate that insurance remains an important predictor of physician use even though it continues to pay for only certain elements of care . 
pulmonary vascular lipid deposition after administration of intravenous fat to infants . the incidence of pulmonary vascular lipid deposits in infants who did or did not receive intravenous lipid emulsion was determined through a review of the pulmonary histopathology and clinical course of 39 neonates who died during a two-year period . the relationship between pulmonary vascular lipid deposits and the duration and amount of administered intravenous fat emulsion was assessed . in addition , the effect of monitored serum triglyceride levels on the development of pulmonary vascular lipid deposits was evaluated . the incidence of pulmonary vascular lipid deposits was greater in the group that received intravenous fat emulsion ( p less than .02 ) . both the amount ( grams per kilogram per day ) and duration ( days ) of intravenous fat emulsion infusion were correlated positively with severity ( p less than .05 ) in infants who had pulmonary vascular lipid deposits . no relationship was seen between peak serum triglyceride levels , the frequency of elevated triglycerides , and pulmonary vascular lipid deposits . although administered fat emulsion was a risk factor for the development of pulmonary vascular deposits , two of 13 infants who had not received intravenous fat emulsion had such deposits . 
improved outcome of hypothermic infants . fifty-six hypothermic infants ( 23 to 34 degrees c ) , aged four to 113 days , admitted during the winter months over a three-year period are reported . low weight and malnutrition were frequent findings on admission . one or more severe associated disturbances , including metabolic abnormalities , bleeding tendency , infection , and respiratory failure were observed in most cases . all 56 patients were closely monitored for vital signs and metabolic status . thirty-eight received conventional slow warming , but 18 of the worst cases received rapid warming . these 18 were among the 24 cases treated in a pediatric intensive care unit . fourteen of the 56 infants required assisted mechanical ventilation . fifty-three of 56 infants survived . of the three who died , none was rapidly warmed , and two of them had severe underlying central nervous system infection . hypothermia of infancy and the associated disturbances are treatable today , on condition that modern medical facilities are available . it appears that the warming method has been overly stressed . 
pediatric emergency departments . pediatric emergency departments were surveyed by mail to determine the following patient and physician characteristics : census , triage classification , and staffing characteristics . the average number of patient visits per department per year was 44 , 615 ( sd + / - 15 , 650 ) . of these , the mean percentage triaged as emergent , urgent , and nonurgent was 14.6 ( sd + / - 13.4 % ) , 35.4 ( sd + / - 13.1 % ) , and 52.2 ( sd + / - 8.7 % ) , respectively . the average number of full-time attending physicians per department was five . fifty-nine ( 91 % ) of the physicians were pediatric board certified , and five ( 7.6 % ) were emergency medicine board certified . academic standing , salaries , clinical research requirements , teaching responsibilities , and average patient care hours were also reviewed . from these data , suggestions for the management of patient care , teaching , and clinical research are presented . 
why obtain arterial blood gases , chest x-rays , and clotting studies in injured children ? experience in a regional trauma center . we conducted a retrospective study to determine the frequency with which arterial blood gases , chest x-rays , and blood clotting studies are obtained while caring for pediatric trauma victims in a regional trauma center , and if the clinician can predict which studies may be abnormal . arterial blood gases were obtained in 35 % of pediatric trauma victims , chest x-rays in 48 % , and clotting studies in 56 % . we found that abnormalities in arterial blood gases were correlated with closed head injury , intubation in the field , and sex of the patient , while abnormalities on chest x-ray correlated with closed head trauma and intubation in the field . abnormalities in clotting studies correlated only with intubation in the field . obtaining a chest x-ray on a pediatric trauma victim with an injury severity score of less than 10 will yield little information . the utility of routine laboratory tests in pediatric trauma victims may vary significantly from that of laboratory tests in adult trauma victims . 
pediatric resident management of the young febrile child . identifying the febrile child at risk for serious illness continues to challenge physicians , especially since conflicting guidelines exist for identification and management . this situation poses a special problem for the pediatrician-in-training . in this study the 35 pl-1 , p1-2 , and pl-3 pediatric house staff of a university-affiliated hospital were surveyed by written questionnaire regarding their practices in dealing with children of less than two years with rectal temperature above 101 degrees f ( 38.3 degrees c ) . uniform replies were received from all house staff concerning the significance of patient age , degree of fever , and laboratory data , although there were some differences of opinion regarding the importance of specific data . all three resident levels tended to reduce the number of laboratory tests obtained as patient age increased , with emphasis placed on clinical impression of illness in assessing the older febrile child . although the house staff indicated that they were satisfied with their handling of the febrile child , the pl-3s were only marginally more satisfied than the pl-1s and pl-2s . in general , the house staff had most confidence in handling the patient under three months of age , for whom it was generally felt that extensive laboratory evaluations and active management were indicated . the perception of the need for a formal protocol was also greatest for this youngest age group and decreased in importance with age . 
utilization of emergency services among patients of a pediatric group practice . pediatric group practices in university hospitals provide primary care to children who are often from indigent families . those practices that attempt to provide care in a continuous way often encounter difficulty in attempting to change their patients ' patterns of emergency department utilization . this study attempts to define the relationship between patient characteristics such as access to a telephone and inappropriate utilization of the emergency department . a university hospital database was reviewed to identify all patients of the pediatric group practice . emergency department records over a six-month period were reviewed to identify all visits of group practice patients to the emergency department . patients without access to a telephone were more likely to inappropriately access care in the emergency department than were patients with phone access . however , within the cohort of emergency department utilizers , phone access was not a predictor of use . of those who used the emergency department , babies and young children and those of indigent status were more likely to inappropriately access care than were older children and those at a higher socioeconomic level . we conclude that the demographic information of clients in a pediatric group practice can be utilized to predict inappropriate utilization of emergency department services and that this information can be used to implement programs to help foster continuity of care . 
pediatric venous cutdowns : utility in emergency situations . venous access in children can be difficult and , in rare cases , impossible to achieve in a timely fashion . the three methods normally utilized to gain access , peripheral and central venipuncture and venous cutdowns , all require different skill levels for use . however , venous cutdowns , the last resort in intravenous line placement , have no performance standards by which to gauge competence . therefore , a survey was conducted of the members of the american pediatric surgical association to assess the frequency with which the pediatric cutdown is performed , the amount of time needed for the procedure , and the usual anatomic location where it is performed . three age groups were included : neonate , one month to five years , and six to 16 years . the performance of five physician groups was also surveyed : pediatric surgeon , pediatric resident , pediatrician , surgical resident , and general surgeon . results showed that , on the average , 56 cutdowns are done per pediatric surgeon per year . they reported that it took them an average of 11 minutes ( range , one to 90 minutes ) to complete the procedure in the neonate , eight minutes ( range , one to 60 minutes ) in the one month to five year group , and six minutes ( range , one to 30 minutes ) for the six to 16 year olds . the cutdown was found to be rarely used by other physician groups . the time required to complete the procedure , even by experts , makes its use as a first choice in an emergency unrealistic for most clinicians . utilization of the pediatric venous cutdown , in emergency situations , should be done only by those clinicians familiar with the technique , and only while other methods for venous access are being simultaneously attempted . 
pulmonary edema due to acute upper airway obstruction from aspirated foreign body . a case of pulmonary edema following upper airway obstruction is presented along with a review of the literature . the causes of this entity are not well known , and opinions vary as to the mechanism of formation of this form of noncardiogenic pulmonary edema . 
pcp intoxication in seven young children . five infants and two young children were treated at a large children 's hospital for phencyclidine intoxication . the clinical symptoms and signs were mostly neurologic , including diminished response to tactile and verbal stimuli ( 100 % ) , ataxia ( 71 % ) , nystagmus ( 57 % ) , constricted pupils ( 57 % ) , depressed sensorium , and stupor associated with a blank , expressionless stare ( 57 % ) . notably absent were the behavioral aberrations such as aggression , which are usually seen with pcp intoxication in older children and adults . the possibility of drug intoxication was denied by most of the parents or surrogate parents accompanying these small children and infants for treatment . it is suggested that a systematic investigation for possible pcp exposure , including a urine toxicology screen for pcp ( preferably by immunoassay methods ) , be conducted whenever an infant or child is brought for emergency treatment of unresponsiveness , bizarre behavior , dyskinesis , dystonic posturing , atypical oculomotor and pupil findings , or evidence of hallucinations . 
ventricular septal defect following blunt chest trauma in childhood : a case report . we report a case of a six-year-old male who sustained a ventricular septal defect following blunt trauma to the chest . traumatically acquired vsd is rare in children . the diagnosis is made by characteristic history and physical examination and confirmed by echocardiogram or cardiac catheterization . treatment is medical until surgical repair can be safely accomplished . 
testicular torsion following orchiopexy . a case of testicular torsion one year after orchiopexy is presented . the occurrence of testicular torsion following surgery is a rare event which has the potential for diagnostic misadventures . to better delineate this condition , we performed a literature review of all reported cases of recurrent testicular torsion . thirteen reported patients with testicular torsion following orchiopexy are presented and discussed . 
lawn dart injury in children : report of two cases . two cases of intracranial penetration by lawn darts are presented in this report . both patients were children who developed infectious sequelae following primary closure of cutaneous puncture wounds . these injuries suggest that the darts produced a high-energy impact force that resulted in skull fractures and focal cerebral injury . when children present with puncture wounds or lacerations produced by lawn darts , intracranial penetration must be ruled out , using appropriate medical imaging . parents should be advised regarding the need for medical reassessment should fever , headache , or local signs of infection occur . 
nebulized beta-adrenergic agents in the treatment of acute pediatric asthma . 
environmental hypothermia in children . 
pediatric emergency care : where do we go from here ? a pediatrician 's view . 
pediatric emergency care : where do we go from here ? an emergency physician 's perspective . 
stridor and occult dysphagia . 
leaving against medical advice . 
relationship between infant neuromotor assessment and preschool motor measures . the purpose of this retrospective study was to examine the relationship between early neuromotor findings , as assessed by the movement assessment of infants ( mai ) , and later gross and fine motor outcomes , as measured by the peabody developmental gross motor scale and the frostig eye-motor coordination subtest . the sample consisted of 77 children who had been identified in infancy as biologically at risk and who had 4-month mai scores and 4.5-year motor evaluation scores . spearman 's rank correlation coefficients between the mai scores and the two motor outcome measures yielded no clinically significant relationships . these findings suggest that therapists should use the mai as a reflection of an infant 's performance at the time of testing rather than as an indicator of future potential . 
relative dynamic muscular endurance of patients with neuromuscular disorders and of healthy matched control subjects . this study was undertaken to determine whether the relative muscular endurance of patients with paresis secondary to neuromuscular disorders was different from that of comparable healthy persons . using an isokinetic dynamometer , i measured the peak knee extension torque of five patients with neuromuscular disorders and of five matched controls . torque was measured during an initial and 40 subsequent maximal knee extensions at 180 degrees / sec . gravity-corrected peak torques of the initial repetition and every fifth subsequent repetition were compared between groups , as were the percentages of decrease in torque ( calculated relative to the initial torque ) using two-way analysis of variance procedures . the results of these procedures demonstrated that the healthy subjects were significantly stronger than the patients with paresis ( p less than .01 ) but that the patients had significantly better relative muscular endurance ( ie , smaller percentages of decrease in torque ) than the healthy subjects ( p less than .05 ) . these findings suggest that , for the patients tested , the relative muscular endurance of patients with paresis is not compromised . this finding does not preclude patients with paresis being unable to complete multiple repetitions of specific functional tasks requiring some critical level of muscular strength . 
soleus muscle electromyographic activity and ankle dorsiflexion range of motion during four stretching procedures . volitional muscle contractions are used frequently in some combination with muscle stretching to promote muscle relaxation and to increase range of motion . in this study , muscle lengthening procedures were evaluated in the ankle plantar flexors . four soleus muscle stretching procedures--static stretch ( ss ) , hold relax ( hr ) ( isometric plantar flexor contraction before stretch ) , agonist contract ( ac ) ( dorsiflexor contraction assisting stretch ) , and hold relax-agonist contraction ( hr-ac ) --were performed in the sagittal plane by 12 physically active adults . the dorsiflexion angle , soleus muscle electromyogram , and soleus muscle motoneuron excitability as determined by the hoffmann-reflex ( h-reflex ) amplitude were measured throughout the duration of each stretch . the range of dorsiflexion achieved at the end of the stretch did not differ significantly between stretching procedures , although in 8 of the 12 subjects and in the subject group as a whole , the ac and hr-ac procedures were associated with higher levels of soleus muscle emg than the levels in the ss and hr procedures ( p less than .01 ) . the h-reflex amplitudes during the ac and hr-ac procedures were smaller than the amplitudes during the ss and hr procedures ( p less than .001 ) , suggesting the possibility of reciprocal inhibition during the agonist contraction . increased tonic emg levels produced by input from other neural pathways affecting alpha motoneurons in the ac and hr-ac procedures may have masked this inhibitory reflex . in healthy adults , a complicated procedure , involving muscle contractions for decreasing active resistance to stretch , may be unnecessary because active resistance to stretch is minimal and muscle relaxation during stretch appears to have little or no direct effect on the rom achieved . 
effect of electrical stimulation current frequencies on isometric knee extension torque . the purpose of this study was to compare the isometric knee extension torques of male and female subjects during maximal voluntary contractions ( mvcs ) , electrical stimulation only , and electrical stimulation superimposed onto mvcs at electrical stimulation current frequencies of 20 , 50 , and 100 hz . an asymmetrical , bidirectional , nonionizing waveform of 1-msec pulse duration was delivered through the femoral nerve and the superficial quadriceps femoris muscles at maximally tolerated intensity for each subject . the male subjects ( n = 20 ) demonstrated significantly greater absolute torques under all contraction conditions than did the female subjects ( n = 20 ) ( p less than .01 ) ; when the torques were expressed as a percentage of each subject 's mvc torque , however , no significant differences were observed between the sexes . overall , the superimposed contractions at 50 and 100 hz and the mvcs had similar torque values , all being significantly greater than the torque values produced by electrical stimulation only at frequencies of 20 , 50 , and 100 hz and by the superimposed contractions at 20 hz . superimposing electrical stimulation onto mvcs did not result in greater torques than those produced by the mvcs alone . the three most effective contraction conditions , in terms of subject comfort ( minimal discomfort ) and increased torque , were the superimposed contractions at 50 and 100 hz and mvcs alone , all of which involved a voluntary component . 
continuous passive motion in the postoperative treatment of patients with total knee replacement . a retrospective study . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of adding three 1-hour sessions of continuous passive motion ( cpm ) each day to the entire postoperative program of patients who received a total knee replacement ( tkr ) . a retrospective chart review was completed for 55 patients ( 8 with bilateral involvement , totaling 63 knees ) who received a tkr between 1981 and 1984. the data analysis compared the following variables for 32 patients who received cpm and 23 patients who received no cpm : the length of hospital stay ( los ) , the number of postoperative days ( pods ) before discharge , the frequency of postoperative complications , and the knee range of motion at discharge . the cpm group showed significant decreases in the frequency of complications ( p less than .05 ) , the los ( p less than .01 ) , and in the number of pods ( p less than .001 ) . no difference was demonstrated in the rom of the two groups . these results support the use of postoperative applications of cpm , but not as strongly as those reported from studies that used longer periods of cpm . further research is indicated to delineate the minimum dosage of cpm needed to obtain the maximum beneficial effects . 
reliability of computerized surface electromyography for determining the onset of muscle activity . the reliability of a computerized analysis system ( cas ) for determining muscle burst onset was compared with the subjective assessments of three trained examiners . a sample of 154 randomly selected , full-wave rectified and filtered electromyographic recordings was evaluated using a test-retest paradigm . percentages of agreement , pearson product-moment correlations , analyses of variance ( anovas ) , and intraclass correlation coefficients ( iccs ) were used to measure the reliability . the between-rater agreement , which included the computerized emg assessments , was only 23 % . within-rater agreement and pearson correlation coefficients were perfect for cas . the trained examiners ' within-rater assessments averaged only 51 % agreement , but test-retest correlations were high ( r = .78 - r = .82 ) . all iccs were statistically significant , ranged from .46 to .60 , and tended to be higher when the cas onset determinations were deleted from the analysis . the anovas revealed that trained examiners were more consistent among each other than when their assessments were compared with cas assessments of emg recordings . this finding , however , may be facility-specific in that any generalization to other examiners was limited . in contrast to trained examiners , the cas was free of variations in judgment , ensured perfect reproducibility of trial assessments , and was highly useful for analyzing multi-channel emg recordings . although the cas ensures perfect reliability , validity determinations require visual inspection of trial data . 
customized ambulatory devices for the very young child--the valad system . suggestion from the field . the valad system consists of two devices , an axillary crutch ( the paal crutch ) and a forearm crutch ( the fad crutch ) . children with various diagnoses have benefited from using these devices . this system has proven to be effective over the past six years at our hospital because it is adaptable to any situation and can be fabricated easily from materials and tools found at most hardware stores . after the therapist provides the final adjustments to the crutches , the children apply the final touches , decorative stickers . 
independent practice--on the horns of a dilemma . a special communication . this communication was adapted from a presentation at the annual meeting of the north carolina chapter of the american physical therapy association , asheville , nc , october 18 , 1985. because the professional concerns and status of the physical therapists of north carolina are not unlike those of physical therapists in other parts of the united states , i was encouraged by my colleagues to share my thoughts and observations with the broad community of physical therapists . although i am addressing north carolina physical therapists specifically , my deeper concern is for our profession and its future course . 
recognition of job experience for educational credit in physical therapy--a challenge process . suggestion from the field . 
factors related to physical therapy students ' decisions to work with elderly patients . the purpose of this study was to determine the factors related to physical therapy students ' decisions to work with elderly patients subsequent to graduation . questionnaires , distributed to students in graduating classes of seven entry-level master 's degree programs and seven baccalaureate degree programs , were returned by 326 participants . the questionnaires included 20 questions within four categories--biographical ( 3 ) , experiential ( 7 ) , perceived socioeconomic ( 3 ) , and attitudinal ( 7 ) factors--plus 1 question to determine whether students intended to work with elderly patients . chi-square tests ( p less than .05 ) determined significant relationships between the participants ' intentions to work with elderly people and their answers to 10 of the questions ( 1 biographical , 3 experiential , and 6 attitudinal ) . the answers to 1 of these experiential questions and 4 of these attitudinal questions were significant at the .001 level . no perceived socioeconomic questions were significant . our results may help in planning strategies to encourage physical therapy students to work with elderly people . 
delayed microcirculatory hyperpermeability following perfusion washout . recent experimental data have demonstrated improved flap survival following perfusion washout with a synthetic , chemically defined , mammalian plasma . in an effort to define the physiology responsible for the efficacy of perfusion , the method of " labeling " hyperpermeable blood vessels with monastral blue b in rat epigastric vascular island flaps was utilized . results confirmed that capillary and venular hyperpermeability is an early and progressive pathophysiologic event in ischemic flap tissue and one which is reversible prior to a critical ischemic period . perfusion washout with a physiologic , acellular plasma substitute delays the onset of vascular hyperpermeability . this may be a mechanism responsible for improving tissue survival following extended periods of warm ischemia ( 12 hours ) . it is implied that stagnant blood and products of hemolysis in the microcirculation may be detrimental to the functional and anatomic integrity of the endothelial wall . 
the fruit peddler : population studies versus laboratory experiments [ editorial ] 
locally invasive cellular blue nevus of the scalp . the cellular blue nevus , although benign by accepted pathological criteria , may behave in an aggressive fashion . distant metastases may occur as malignant melanoma . this case illustrates the potential malignant degeneration and spread of a " benign " neoplasm . a broader definition of malignancy to include the clinical behavior of cellular blue nevus may be in order . 
removable frontal suspension wire . 
single eyelid incision for exposure of the zygomatic bone and orbital reconstruction . experience with a single lower eyelid incision with mobilization of the lateral canthus is described for exposure of the zygoma , lower and lateral orbit , and zygomaticofrontal suture . the incision may be either subciliary with a skin-muscle flap or transconjunctival . both require mobilization of the canthus . reattachment of the canthus is not required in acute zygomatic fracture treatment but is preferred for secondary orbital reconstruction or in patients in whom a simultaneous coronal incision is employed . the approaches described reduce cutaneous scarring and provide generous exposure of the lower and lateral orbit . predictable and improved aesthetic results are routinely achieved . 
the inverted nipple : a blind method of correction . 
report of the american medical colleges committee on financing graduate medical education [ letter ] 
legal disclaimers [ letter ] 
the lip lift [ letter ] 
intravelar veloplasty and velopharyngeal competence [ letter ] 
volumetric quantification of intracranial and ventricular volume following cranial vault remodeling : a preliminary report . this preliminary study documents preoperative and postoperative changes in cerebral tissue as well as intracranial and ventricular volume in patients who underwent cranial vault remodeling for craniosynostosis . the documentation and calculations were provided from ct data according to a craniofacial protocol . three-dimensional images were then obtained of the preoperative and postoperative skulls and cerebral tissues . from these data , comparisons of preoperative and postoperative volumes of the cerebral tissue and ventricles could be examined . in one case , a frontal bone advancement combined with anterior cranial vault remodeling was associated with an increase in intracranial volume of 110 cc ( 8 percent ) and a ventricular volume increase of 112 percent . the reported technique should allow more complete evaluation of the preoperative pathology and documentation and prediction of the projected intracranial and ventricular volume changes . 
the use of miniplates in craniomaxillofacial surgery . miniplates were used in craniomaxillofacial surgery for fixation in the skull , maxilla , and / or mandible in 74 patients with minimal or no intermaxillary wiring . procedures included forehead and orbital repositioning , frontofacial advancement , le fort iii and particularly le fort i osteotomies , as well as mandibular osteotomies and fracture repair . the miniplates provided stable fixation and , compared with other techniques , improved airway safety . the complication rate was low : there were no infections , but two plates ( 1 percent ) became exposed in the buccal sulcus . although application of miniplates lengthened surgery and increased the cost of the procedure , the savings in intensive care monitoring more than offset these costs . the stability of fixation minimizes the opportunity to reposition the fragments postoperatively with training elastics . therefore , meticulous technique is mandatory , with particular emphasis on passive fitting of the plates and precise drilling of screw holes . 
the use of teflon in orbital floor reconstruction following blunt facial trauma : a 20-year experience . a myriad of materials have been used for reestablishing continuity of the orbital floor following blunt facial trauma . traditionally , autogenous grafts have been the material of choice for orbital floor reconstruction ; however , alloplastic materials have gained popularity because of their availability and ease of use . a large clinical experience with long-term treatment results has never been reported for any substance used in orbital floor reconstruction . the purpose of this study was to review our long-term treatment results using teflon for orbital floor reconstruction following blunt trauma , with emphasis on the incidence of infection , extrusion , and implant displacement . this report presents a 20-year review of 230 teflon implants for reconstruction of traumatic orbital floor defects . with a mean follow-up period of 30 months , there was only one implant infection and no complications of extrusion or implant displacement . these findings support the use of teflon as a safe and effective material for the reconstruction of orbital floor defects following blunt facial trauma . 
speech intelligibility after partial glossectomy in children with down 's syndrome . twenty-three children with down 's syndrome , aged between 3.7 and 17.5 years , underwent partial glossectomy for improvement of cosmetic appearance . improved speech was also expected . preoperative and postoperative audiotaped samples of spoken words and connected speech on a standardized articulation test were rated by three lay and three expert listeners on a five-point intelligibility scale . five subjects were eliminated from both tasks and another four from connected-speech testing because of inability to complete the experimental tasks . statistical analyses of ratings for words in 18 subjects and connected speech in 14 of them revealed no significant difference in acoustic speech intelligibility preoperatively and postoperatively . the findings suggest that a wedge-excision partial glossectomy in children with down 's syndrome does not result in significant improvement in acoustic speech intelligibility ; in some patients , however , there may be an aesthetic improvement during speech . 
alar rim lowering . a technique for the lowering of the alar rim is presented . the indications for this technique , originally presented by meyer and kesselring , have been expanded to other related nasal deformities , including the high-arched nostril , the asymmetrical nostril , the mestizo nose , and the hanging columella , in which the surgeon feels that total nasal length should not be sacrificed . the technique consists of an incision parallel to the alar rim and an unfurling of the vestibular mucosa caudally . a cartilage graft from the septum , lowering lateral cartilage , or other source is placed between the two layers at the newly proposed alar height . through-and-through sutures hold the graft and alar rim in place . 
breast reconstruction without an implant : results and complications using an extended latissimus dorsi flap . the results of 55 breast reconstructions using an extended latissimus dorsi myocutaneous flap without an implant are reported . a method for preoperatively estimating the flap volume , operative details , and a technique for insetting the flap are reviewed . good , fair , and poor results were achieved in 69 , 24 , and 7 percent of patients , respectively . examples are illustrated . the poor results were all due to major complications and are analyzed in detail . significant complications affecting the end result occurred in 14.5 percent of patients , and nonsignificant and minor complications occurred in 33 percent . flap volume is shown to be fairly accurately predictable . seventy percent of flaps had a volume in excess of 400 cc . the reconstructed volume , cosmetic results , and complication rates are compared with those of other reported series . good results can be achieved with this method , quite comparable to other methods , and with similar complication rates , but without the problems associated with the use of a prosthetic implant . 
aesthetic considerations of the medial gastrocnemius myocutaneous flap . a technique for the repair of a high anterior tibial defect is described in three clinical cases using a modified medial gastrocnemius myocutaneous island flap . the repair was done in such a way as to preserve as much of the normal contour as possible , after the fashion of the muscle flap alone , while retaining the advantages of full-thickness myocutaneous coverage of the defect . the result was an aesthetically improved reconstruction that we feel justifies further use of the gastrocnemius myocutaneous flap in selected patients . 
the dorsal thoracic fascia : anatomic significance with clinical applications in reconstructive microsurgery . the anatomic distribution and potential arterial flow patterns of the circumflex scapular artery were investigated by microfil injection . these studies demonstrated that the circumflex scapular artery lies within the dorsal thoracic fascia , which plays a significant role in the circulation of the overlying skin and subcutaneous tissue . we conclude that scapular / parascapular flaps are fasciocutaneous flaps , the dorsal thoracic fascia can be transferred as a free flap without its overlying skin and subcutaneous tissue , and intercommunication exists between the myocutaneous perforators of the latissimus dorsi myocutaneous flap and the vascular plexus of the dorsal thoracic fascia . we present microvascular cases in which the vascular properties of the dorsal thoracic fascia facilitated wound closure with free fascia flaps or expanded cutaneous or myocutaneous flaps . 
experimental comparison of bone revascularization by musculocutaneous and cutaneous flaps . revascularization , one of the major components of bone healing , was examined in an experimental model . the radioactive microsphere technique demonstrated that after 4 weeks beneath a musculocutaneous flap , isolated bone segments had significant blood flow , whereas bone beneath a cutaneous flap did not . the muscle flap bone had a blood flow approximately half that of normal control bone . the muscle of the musculocutaneous flap had a blood flow three times that of the skin of the cutaneous flap . the bipedicle cutaneous flap used was designed to have a healthy blood supply , and at 4 weeks it had a blood flow twice that of control skin . despite this , there was essentially no demonstrable blood flow in the cutaneous flap bone segments at 4 weeks . only 3 of 17 bone segments underneath cutaneous flaps showed medullary vascularization , whereas 10 of 11 muscle flap bones did . all bone segments underneath muscle flaps showed osteoblasts and osteoclasts at 4 weeks ; neither were seen in the cutaneous bone segments . the process of revascularization occurred through an intact cortex and penetrated into the cancellous bone . because the bone segments were surrounded by an impervious barrier except for one cortical surface , the cellular activity seen is attributed to revascularization by the overlying flap . in this model , a muscle flap was superior to a cutaneous flap in revascularizing isolated bone segments at 4 weeks . this was documented by blood flow measured by the radioactive microsphere technique and by bone histology . 
metabolic effects of hyperbaric oxygen in postischemic muscle . in traumatic injuries to the extremities , with a circulatory insufficiency , the resultant ischemia leads to decreasing levels of the energy-rich compounds adenosine triphosphate ( atp ) and phosphocreatine ( pcr ) and increasing levels of lactate in muscle . a tourniquet model for temporary ischemia was used to determine if hyperbaric oxygen treatment could enhance the cellular metabolic restitution when the circulation was restored . the circulation of the rat hindlimb was interrupted for 1.5 and 3 hours . after 1.5 hours of ischemia , the levels of adenosine triphosphate , phosphocreatine , and lactate were restored to normal in muscle biopsies taken 5 hours after the ischemia . after 3 hours of ischemia , there were marked reductions of adenosine triphosphate and phosphocreatine and elevated lactate values in the postischemic muscle , indicating severe ischemic damage . hyperbaric oxygen treatment at 2.5 atm for 45 minutes reduced these changes significantly . a certain number of hyperbaric oxygen treatments were necessary to maintain this effect . it is concluded that repeated hyperbaric oxygen treatments in the postischemic phase stimulate aerobic metabolism . 
fluorocarbon enhancement of skin flap survival in rats . fluorocarbons exhibit two unique properties : oxygen saturation in direct proportion to the percent administered and low viscosity which improves microcirculation . these properties were investigated in improving survival in random skin flaps in rats . modified mcfarlane flaps were raised in 30 sprague-dawley rats and divided into three equal groups . group 1 rats served as controls , group 2 rats were hemodiluted with ringer 's lactate , and group 3 rats were hemodiluted with fluosol-da ( 20 % ) . all groups were kept in a high ( 80 % ) oxygen environment for 48 hours . areas of necrosis were measured using a computer system . necrosis in control flaps averaged 14.96 percent ; in flaps hemodiluted with ringer 's lactate , 10.12 percent ; in flaps hemodiluted with fluosol , 4.76 percent . these differences were statistically significant . we conclude that fluorocarbons significantly enhance flap survival in rats . 
endometrial carcinoma staging by mr imaging . the potential of magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging in the detection of endometrial carcinoma and in the assessment of its extent was evaluated prospectively in 51 patients clinically suspected of having the disease . mr imaging findings were compared with the results of surgical-pathologic staging and lymph node sampling following hysterectomy . histologic findings showed 45 patients to have endometrial carcinoma , three to have no residual tumor after dilatation and curettage , and three to have adenomatous hyperplasia of the endometrium . mr imaging demonstrated an endometrial abnormality in 43 of the 51 patients ( 84 % ) . endometrial carcinoma could not be differentiated from adenomatous hyperplasia or blood clots . therefore , mr imaging was not specific for tumor detection , and histologic diagnosis remains essential . the overall accuracy of mr imaging in staging endometrial carcinoma was 92 % ; its overall accuracy in demonstrating the depth of myometrial invasion was 82 % . demonstration of lymphadenopathy and adnexal or peritoneal metastases by mr imaging was suboptimal . 
intrauterine contraceptive devices : mr imaging . to assess the safety of magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging in women who have an intrauterine contraceptive device ( iud ) in place , in vitro and in vivo studies were performed at both 0.35 and 1.5 t . two commonly used iuds were tested , one all of plastic , the other with a coil of copper wire on it . specifically , the study assessed possible motion of the iud in the magnetic field , potential of the iud to heat up during two spin-echo imaging sequences commonly used in mr imaging of the pelvis ( 2 , 000 / 30 and 60 [ repetition time , msec / echo time , msec ] , and 500 / 30 ) , and the appearance on mr images of the iud devices . a retrospective review of mr images of the pelvis in six women who had an iud in place was also performed . results show that an iud does not move under the influence of the magnetic field , does not heat during spin-echo sequences commonly used for pelvic imaging , and does not produce artifacts in vitro or in vivo . patients with either type of iud can be safely imaged with mr , and mr images of the pelvis are not degraded by the presence of an iud . 
endometrial cysts of the ovary : mr imaging . magnetic resonance ( mr ) images of 15 cases of ovarian endometrial cyst were reviewed . with a high-field-strength ( 1.5-t ) mr imager , t1- and t2-weighted images were obtained in axial and sagittal planes , with 5-mm section thickness . mr findings highly suggestive of an endometrial cyst included adhesions to the surrounding organs ( e.g. , loss of clear margin of the uterine body and tethered appearance of the rectum ) ; a distinct low-intensity zone surrounding a cyst loculus on both t1- and t2-weighted images produced by a thick fibrous capsule ; loculus contents with short t1 and long t2 values , attributed to hemorrhagic fluid ; and prominent low intensity ( shading ) within a loculus on t2-weighted images , the mechanism of which is yet to be determined . 
clinical stage b prostate carcinoma : staging with mr imaging . magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging studies were performed in 29 patients with clinical findings of stage b prostatic carcinoma with use of both t1 and t2-weighted spin echo sequences . mr imaging findings were correlated with surgical / pathologic results in 18 patients who underwent an operation . periprostatic fat , periprostatic venous plexus , seminal vesicles , and lymph nodes were assessed from mr imaging studies . when each was assessed independently , the periprostatic fat signal had a sensitivity of 29 % , specificity of 100 % , and accuracy of 85 % in detecting extracapsular tumor extension , whereas the periprostatic venous plexus had a sensitivity of 57 % , specificity of 86 % , and accuracy of 80 % . mr imaging had a sensitivity of 50 % , specificity of 97 % , and accuracy of 89 % for detecting seminal vesicular involvement . when all four anatomic features were taken into consideration , mr imaging had an accuracy of 89 % ( 16 of 18 patients ) in differentiating stage b from stage c or d disease ( sensitivity 87 % , specificity 90 % ) . our data indicate that mr imaging is a promising method for staging prostatic carcinoma . 
prostatic carcinoma : staging by clinical assessment , ct , and mr imaging . the sensitivity , specificity , accuracy , and positive and negative predictive values of clinical assessment , computed tomography ( ct ) , and magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging were compared in the differentiation of stage b from stage c prostatic carcinoma . forty-six patients who had undergone radical prostatectomy were included in the study . surgical-pathologic staging was considered the " truth measure . " clinical staging had an accuracy of 61 % , and ct , 65 % . accuracy for mr imaging depended on the instrument parameters and plane of section used . when only transverse t1-weighted images were analyzed , mr accuracy was 61 % . however , when transverse t1- and t2-weighted images supplemented by additional t2-weighted coronal or sagittal images were studied , accuracy increased to 83 % . at present , mr imaging is the most accurate diagnostic modality for the local staging of carcinoma of the prostate , but for optimal results , multiple sequences and two orthogonal planes of imaging are needed . 
excretory urography using computed radiography . a computed radiographic system for generating digital film images was evaluated in the performance of excretory urography . three experienced radiologists reviewed digital and conventional screen-film urograms for 100 patients in a prospective study to evaluate the clinical utility of the digital system . results indicate no difference between digital and screen-film urograms in diagnostic sensitivity , specificity , or receiver-operating-characteristic curves for differentiating normal from abnormal studies . readers ' performances in making specific diagnoses were also the same with both techniques . 
renal sarcoma and sarcomatoid renal cell carcinoma : ct and angiographic features . computed tomographic ( ct ) and angiographic findings in 14 patients ( eight men , six women , aged 30-72 years ) with sarcomatoid renal cell carcinoma ( srcc ) and various types of renal sarcoma are described . there were four patients with srcc ; three , leiomyosarcoma ; two , liposarcoma ; two , fibrosarcoma ; and one each of unclassified renal sarcoma , clear cell sarcoma , and malignant fibrous histiocytoma . the most frequent presenting symptom was an abdominal mass or pain . all 14 patients underwent ct , and 11 underwent selective renal angiography . the diagnosis of renal sarcoma should be suspected when ct findings suggest that the tumor arises from the renal capsule or renal sinus and when the tumor is hypovascular or avascular on angiograms . the characteristic negative attenuation values for liposarcomas permit a specific diagnosis . sarcomas that originate in the renal parenchyma and srcc cannot be easily differentiated from renal cell carcinoma ; however , renal sarcomas do not appear to have a propensity for extension into the renal vein or the inferior vena cava . 
renal metastases : clinicopathologic and radiologic correlation . the clinical and radiologic features of 27 patients with renal metastases arising from eight different types of nonlymphomatous primary malignancies are presented . renal metastases were generally detected late in the course of the malignancy . in 23 patients there were no symptoms referable to the kidney . urinalysis was normal in nine patients and showed microscopic hematuria in nine , gross hematuria in four , and proteinuria in four . radiologically , metastases were usually multifocal ; however , metastases arising from colon , lung , and breast carcinoma were sometimes large , solitary , and otherwise indistinguishable from primary renal cell carcinoma . three of four melanoma metastases and three of seven lung metastases infiltrated the perinephric space . computed tomography was the most sensitive modality , depicting renal metastases in all 24 cases in which it was employed , followed by ultrasound and intravenous urography . in patients with a history of malignancy , renal metastases outnumbered renal cell carcinomas by approximately 4 : 1. this study indicates that a new renal lesion in a patient with advanced , noncurable cancer is more likely metastatic than primary and that biopsy in this setting is unlikely to be of aid . 
pulmonary lymphangitic spread of carcinoma : appearance on ct scans . chest computed tomography ( ct ) , including high-resolution ct with thin ( 1.5-mm ) sections was used to evaluate proved ( pathologically or clinically ) lymphangitic spread ( ls ) of tumor in 12 patients . these appearances were compared with thin-section scans obtained in 11 healthy subjects . thin-section ct demonstrated findings consistent with thickening of the normal lung interstitium . in all patients , thin sections showed an increase in the number of peripheral lines ( 1-2 cm in length ) that were diffuse in generalized disease and localized in focal disease . normal peripheral arcades were not increased in number , but the limbs forming the arcades were thickened in all patients . a diffuse increase in linear and curvilinear structures ( reticular pattern ) was seen toward the center of the lung . polygonal structures 1-2 cm in diameter were seen in seven patients with ls but not in healthy subjects . fissures were thickened in nine patients . selected 1.5-mm-thick ct sections are recommended through abnormal areas ( seen at ct or on chest radiographs ) or if these are normal at three levels ( midapex , hilus , and 3 cm above the diaphragm ) when scanning patients with tumors known to cause ls . 
usual interstitial pneumonia : correlation of ct with clinical , functional , and radiologic findings . correlation between disease extent on computed tomographic ( ct ) scans and severity of clinical and functional impairment was obtained in 23 patients with usual interstitial pneumonia ( uip ) by review of the clinical data , pulmonary function tests , chest radiographs , and ct scans . the ct scans and chest radiographs were each read twice by two independent observers . disease extent was assessed on ct scans by a visual score ( 0 % -100 % involvement of the lung parenchyma ) and on the radiograph by the international labour office classification . there was good intraobserver and interobserver agreement for both ct and radiograph scores ( all r greater than or equal to .71 ) . ct scans gave a better estimate of disease extent and showed more extensive honeycombing than did the radiograph . a significant correlation was found between the extent of disease as assessed with ct and the severity of dyspnea ( r = .62 , p less than .001 ) , as well as between ct and impairment in gas exchange as assessed by the diffusing capacity ( r = .64 , p less than .001 ) . there was poor correlation between disease severity as assessed with chest radiography and the clinical and functional variables ( all r less than or equal to .39 ) . 
lung lesions : cytologic diagnosis by fine-needle biopsy . small-bore ( 22- or 23-gauge ) needles were used to aspirate 458 lung masses . sensitivity for the detection of malignancy by this method was 96.6 % ( 312 of 323 patients ) ; accuracy was 98.7 % . surgical confirmation was available for comparison in over half of patients with malignancy . histologic reclassification of malignancy occurred in only 6.1 % of patients , with significant misclassification ( misdiagnosis of small cell carcinoma ) occurring in only two instances . one hundred thirteen of 117 nonmalignant conditions were properly categorized , with an overall specificity of 96.6 % . no major complication occurred . while several recent studies have stressed the advantage of using larger needles , to overcome the limitation of smaller aspiration needles that provide only cytologic material , small-needle aspiration appears to be a safe , reliable , and accurate means for diagnosing lung lesions . 
bronchial arteries : ct demonstration with arteriographic correlation . dynamic computed tomography ( ct ) was performed in nine patients with enlarged bronchial arteries documented by arteriography . plain and contrast-material-enhanced ct scans of two more patients with prominent bronchial arteries were retrospectively reviewed . the study was conducted to determine visibility of the bronchial artery with ct and to depict the anatomic relationship of its mediastinal portion to surrounding structures . the mediastinal portion of the bronchial artery was successfully outlined as nodular or linear densities on all dynamic ct scans . the right bronchial artery was confirmed to arise from the medial wall of the thoracic aorta , whereas the left arises from the anterior wall . because of its retroesophageal location , the enlarged right bronchial artery can compress the posterior wall of the esophagus . it is postulated that the left bronchial artery occasionally traverses the aorticopulmonary window , recognized as nodular or linear densities below the aortic arch on ct scans . 
fibroadenomas : histopathologic and mr imaging features . twelve fibroadenomas were studied in vivo using magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging with a cylindrical surface coil and at 0.15 t . on t1-weighted images , most fibroadenomas had an intensity similar to that of normal fibroglandular tissue ; areas of inhomogeneity were seen in six . on five of the t2-weighted images , the fibroadenomas gave a signal equal to or slightly greater than that of normal fibroglandular tissue ; five showed a marked increase in intensity , and two gave a low signal intensity . four fibroadenomas were inhomogeneous on both t1- and t2-weighted images , and two additional lesions became inhomogeneous on t2-weighted images . no consistent correlations were found between mr appearances and histopathologic findings in the fibroadenomas . it is concluded that the appearance of fibroadenomas on mr images is sufficiently variable that it would be difficult to differentiate benign from malignant circumscribed tumors on the basis of mr imaging alone . 
cholelithiasis : evaluation with ct . computed tomography ( ct ) is often the first imaging modality used in the diagnosis of patients with suspected abdominal disease . while it is known that early generation ct scanners often detect gallstones , the detection rate of newer equipment is not widely known . abdominal ct scans of 226 patients who had undergone ultrasonographic ( us ) studies of the gallbladder were reviewed in a blinded study to determine the accuracy of state-of-the-art ct scanning equipment in the detection of cholelithiasis . of 110 patients with us or surgical evidence of cholelithiasis , gallstones were demonstrated on ct images of 87 ( 79.1 % sensitivity ) . overall accuracy was 89.8 % , while specificity was 100 % . on ct images stones could appear densely ( 48.3 % ) or slightly ( 11.5 % ) calcified , as an area with a rim of increased density ( 21.8 % ) , as an area of soft-tissue density ( 14.9 % ) , or as an area of low density ( 3.4 % ) . stone size , stone density , section incrementation , and the pericholecystic anatomy affected the detection rate . understanding the spectrum of findings and the other factors involved can optimize success of diagnosis of cholelithiasis on the basis of ct examinations . 
common bile duct stones : reassessment of criteria for ct diagnosis . to evaluate the specificity of previously suggested computed tomographic ( ct ) criteria for diagnosing common bile duct ( cbd ) stones , ct scans of 38 patients with cbd stones were compared with scans of 32 patients with carcinoma obstructing the cbd and 28 nonobstructed patients . the cbd stone was directly visualized as a target sign or densely calcified structure in 29 of 38 patients with stones ( 76 % ) ; one with carcinoma showed a similar target sign . a rim of increased density in the distal cbd was found without accompanying target sign in six patients with stones ( 16 % ) , compared with 12 with carcinoma ( 38 % ) and 15 nonobstructed patients ( 54 % ) . irregular intraluminal densities without a detectable target sign were noted in four patients with stones ( 11 % ) , compared with eight with carcinoma ( 25 % ) and nine nonobstructed patients ( 32 % ) . abrupt termination of the cbd without a mass was more common as an isolated finding in patients with carcinoma ( 31 % ) than in patients with stones ( 13 % ) . ct is accurate in detecting cbd stones in certain patient populations , but direct visualization of the stone is required . 
pancreatic abscess : predictive value of early abdominal ct . the value of a recently reported grading system of early abdominal computed tomography ( ct ) for predicting development of pancreatic abscess in patients with acute pancreatitis was reassessed . when the previously described ct grading system was used in another patient population , it did not demonstrate the same degree of prognostic value of baseline ct . in this series pancreatic abscess occurred in only eight of 29 patients ( 28 % ) with grade e ct scans ( with grade e representing the most severe involvement ) , compared with 60 % in the previous series . of 44 patients with either grade d or e baseline ct scans , abscesses developed in only 30 % , with a minimum clinical follow-up of 3 months . a second grading system , which used a semiquantitative analysis of the degree of peripancreatic inflammation ( a " ct severity score " ) , also did not strongly correlate with the future risk of abscess , the authors conclude that early abdominal ct should be performed selectively in patients with acute pancreatitis and reserved for patients who are either diagnostic dilemmas or who fail to respond to supportive treatment and have clinically suspected surgical complications such as pancreatic abscess . 
adenocarcinoma of the alimentary tract : peritoneal distribution scintigraphy . effective intraperitoneal ( ip ) chemotherapy and colloidal radiation therapy depend on contact of the drugs with the entire peritoneal surface . using technetium-99m sulfur colloid , one can evaluate the completeness of peritoneal fluid distribution . forty-eight planar ip scans from 26 patients with gastrointestinal malignancies were reviewed and scan findings were correlated with the site of primary tumor , surgical findings , and the location of any residual disease . of the 26 patients , 22 had undergone resection of the primary lesion prior to scanning . scans typically demonstrated more activity in the upper and lower portions of the abdomen than in the midabdomen . diminished uptake in the pelvis , right lower quadrant , and right upper quadrant was generally due to metastases . a tumor mass was identified as responsible in only one of eight patients with diminished or absent left upper quadrant activity . knowledge of variability in patterns seen on ip scans is essential to rational guidance of ip chemotherapy and radiation therapy . 
the retrorenal colon in the supine and prone patient . ninety patients underwent computed tomographic scanning in both the supine and prone positions to show the orientation of the retroperitoneal colon about the kidneys and allow evaluation of changes in colonic position and contents . the data were compared with data on 500 patients scanned only when supine . particular attention was given to bowel found posterior to the kidneys ( retrorenal colon ) : its frequency of occurrence on 500 scans of supine patients was 1.9 % , but 10.0 % in the 90 prone patients . because most invasive renal procedures would not intersect with retrorenal colon located behind the lateral one-third of the kidney , the data were reevaluated after deletion of these patients , giving a frequency in prone patients of 4.7 % . this was found exclusively at the level of the lower renal poles , and the involved colon was extensively distended with gas . attention should be given at fluoroscopy to detect this unusual , posteriorly positioned , air-filled colon before any invasive renal procedure . 
thymus in the superior mediastinum simulating adenopathy : appearance on ct . a soft-tissue nodule was identified in the mediastinum superior to the left brachiocephalic vein in six patients undergoing computed tomography ( ct ) of the chest . in one case , biopsy of the mass showed that it was thymic tissue . in the remaining cases , the nodule was identified as thymus on the basis of the ct findings . the findings include equal density of the superior mediastinal nodule and the thymic lobes anterior to the ascending aorta , no displacement or narrowing of adjacent arteries , absence of a fat plane between the nodule and the thymic lobes , and parallel reduction in size of the nodule and the rest of the thymus . two patients were examined with magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging . sagittal mr images demonstrated continuity of the superior mediastinal nodule with the more caudal portion of the thymus . recognition of this normal variant in children is important in order to avoid unnecessary mediastinal biopsies or overstaging of malignancies . 
stab wounds to the extremities : indications for angiography [ published erratum appears in radiology 1987 oct ; 165 ( 1 ) : 292 ] to ascertain the sensitivity of physical examination with respect to significant arterial injury , the angiographic findings of 61 stab wounds to the extremities were correlated with specific physical findings . in 25 injuries there were physical findings of major injury , including one or more of the following : pulse deficit , active bleeding or expanding hematoma , bruit or murmur , neurologic deficit , or hypotension . of these 25 injuries , angiographic examination revealed significant vascular damage in 11. in 36 injuries physical findings indicated minor injury , with proximity to major vessels or nonexpanding hematoma being the only indication for arteriography . none of these patients had significant vascular injuries . physical examination was found to be 100 % sensitive in screening for significant vascular injuries . these results indicate that arteriography is unwarranted in stab wounds to the extremities if the only indications are proximity to major vessels or nonexpanding hematoma . 
self-expanding metallic stents for small vessels : an experimental evaluation . thirty-three self-expanding metallic stents were placed in 24 arterial segments of the hind legs and nine arteries of the abdominal viscera in seven dogs . twelve 5-mm stents , eight 4-mm stents , and 13 3-mm stents were inserted . follow-up ranged from 4 to 30 weeks . all 4-mm and 5-mm stents were patent at follow-up . seven ( 54 % ) of the 3-mm stents remained patent . stent wires were completely covered by a proliferation of the intima . no stent migration , occlusion of side branches , or vessel wall perforation was observed . a stent / artery ratio ( sar ) was computed using stent and recipient vessel diameters . good vascular patency was observed when the sar was less than or equal to 1.2 . an sar greater than 1.2 was associated with immediate spasm , immediate or delayed thrombosis , or excessive intimal proliferation . selection of correct stent size is a major determinant of patency in small arteries . 
long-segment femoropopliteal stenoses : is angioplasty a boon or a bust ? analysis of 193 femoropopliteal angioplasties demonstrated patency rates in the stenotic group of 75.5 % at 6 months and 54.4 % at 54 months . the patency rates for the occlusive group were 93.7 % at 6 months and 72.9 % at 54 months ; these rates were significantly better than those in patients with stenoses . a group of 14 patients with long-segment ( greater than 7 cm ) stenosis had the highest risk of early failure , with a 6-month patency of 23.1 % . after removal of the long-segment stenosis group from the results , there were no significant differences between the long-term patencies for stenotic and occlusive lesions . if angioplasty of long stenoses is attempted , a high initial success rate but early failure should be anticipated . 
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty for renovascular hypertension in arteritis : experience in china . forty-two patients with renovascular hypertension were treated with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty . in 32 , arteritis was the cause of the renovascular disease . thirty of the 42 patients were followed for more than 6 months after angioplasty . twenty-two of these 30 patients had arteritis ; 19 of the 22 ( 86.4 % ) benefited from the angioplasty , compared with six of eight patients ( 75 % ) with atherosclerosis or fibromuscular dysplasia . 
experimental intrahepatic portacaval anastomosis : use of expandable gianturco stents . original gianturco expandable stents and their modifications were used to create an experimental intrahepatic portacaval anastomosis ( eipca ) in 30 young domestic swine without portal hypertension . the study focused on the design of a suitable stent , the technique of its application , and the evaluation of short-term patency of the eipca . a stent with a 2.5-cm-long body and wire skirts on both ends was most suitable for eipca creation . well-positioned stents shunted most of the portal blood in the inferior vena cava circulation and remained patent for 4-6 weeks . ingrowth of liver parenchyma and abundant proliferation of the intima and connective tissue inside the stent lumen in these rapidly growing animals gradually decreased eipca patency , and thrombus formation with diminished blood flow closed them completely . 
abnormal parathyroid glands : high-resolution mr imaging . high-resolution magnetic resonance ( mr ) images of the neck were obtained in 23 patients with hyperparathyroidism . surgical confirmation was available in all cases . mr imaging allowed accurate localization of 14 of 17 parathyroid adenomas , two of two parathyroid carcinomas , and five of eight hyperplastic glands , the latter from three patients . mr depicted nine of 11 ( 82 % ) abnormal glands that were 0.5-1.0 cm in size and 12 of 14 ( 85.7 % ) glands larger than 1 cm in diameter . in all but one case , abnormal glands had signal intensity greater than or equal to that of fat on spin-echo images with long repetition time and echo time . parathyroid adenomas , carcinomas , and hyperplasia could not be distinguished from each other . the overall sensitivity and specificity of mr imaging in the detection of parathyroid abnormalities was 77.8 % and 95.4 % respectively , resulting in an accuracy of 90.2 % . this compares favorably with other imaging modalities . 
neck evaluation with barium-enhanced radiographs and ct scans after supraglottic subtotal laryngectomy . supraglottic subtotal laryngectomy ( ssl ) is a radical , yet voice-conserving , surgical procedure commonly performed for carcinoma of the supraglottic larynx . the pharyngograms and computed tomographic ( ct ) scans of 35 patients obtained after ssl were evaluated retrospectively . these examinations reliably demonstrated the changes in anatomy caused by removal of the epiglottis , aryepiglottic folds , and false vocal cords . fourteen patients had documented recurrence of cancer ; five mucosal , nine extramucosal . three of five macroscopic mucosal recurrences in the larynx / pharynx were detected on the barium pharyngograms ; the two mucosal lesions not seen were in the base of the tongue and tonsillar fossa . ct enabled detection of five of five recurrences and was superior to pharyngography in demonstrating the soft-tissue extent of disease . ct findings mimicking recurrence were seen in two patients : one with diffuse histiocytic lymphoma ; the second , with benign hyperkeratosis . barium and ct examinations are useful adjuncts to the clinical examination in detecting recurrent squamous cell carcinoma in patients following ssl . 
paranasal sinus hemorrhage : evaluation with mr imaging . computed tomography ( ct ) and magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging were performed in ten patients with paranasal sinus hemorrhage after trauma . acute or subacute hemorrhage was detected on mr images by using t1- and t2-weighted imaging to identify the chemical state of the blood and to differentiate blood from mucosal thickening and sinus effusion . surgical proof of intrasinus hemorrhage was obtained in only two cases . displaced fractures , associated cerebral contusions , and traumatic encephalocele were well shown on mr imaging . nondisplaced and minimally displaced fractures were better evaluated with ct . 
white-matter lesions in mr imaging of clinically healthy brains of elderly subjects : possible pathologic basis . patchy white-matter lesions occur in the magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging brain studies of 20 % -30 % of neurologically healthy elderly subjects . to determine the frequency of histologically verifiable white-matter lesions at autopsy in such subjects the authors examined serial , microscopic , whole brain sections from 15 clinically healthy subjects aged 52-72 years . small white-matter lesions were found in 12. in these 12 , zones of atrophic perivascular demyelination were present in eight brains . these are not the familiar thrombotic , embolic , or ischemic vascular lesions that produce acute necrosis . this mild vascular insufficiency produces atrophy , which has been recognized in the pathology literature but whose clinical significance remains unknown . other lesions seen were small vascular malformations in the centrum ovale in four brains , diverticula of the lateral ventricle extending into the white matter in three , and an isolated central white-matter infarction in one . all of these lesions are probably the basis of the patchy white-matter lesions seen on mr imaging studies in the neurologically healthy elderly population . 
wallerian degeneration in a patient with schilder disease : mr imaging demonstration . wallerian degeneration in the corticospinal tract was demonstrated by magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging in a patient with schilder disease . the histochemical stages of myelin breakdown that allow its demonstration by mr imaging are reviewed . 
venous clots : evaluation with mr imaging . in vitro and in vivo studies were performed to determine the proton relaxation and imaging characteristics of static blood and acute and organized clot in canine jugular veins . in vivo , it was found that two inversion recovery sequences using a short inversion time ( 100 msec ) demonstrated better differentiation of signal intensity of intravascular clot from surrounding soft tissues than did standard t1- and t2-weighted sequences . in vitro , quantitative measurements showed marked reduction of both t1 and t2 relaxation time of acute clot compared with stagnant blood . in addition , the t1 relaxation time , and to a lesser extent the t2 relaxation time , shortened as the clot aged , indicating a potential role for magnetic resonance imaging in determining the age of venous thrombi . 
partial flip angle mr imaging . theoretical analysis predicts that performing magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging with partial ( less than 90 degrees ) flip angles can reduce imaging times two- to fourfold when lesions with elevated t1 values are being examined . this time savings occurs because repetition time ( tr ) is reduced when imaging is performed with partial flips . partial flip mr imaging can also improve signal-to-noise ratio ( s / n ) in fast body imaging . for this study , analytical tools were used to predict image contrast and s / n for short tr , partial flip sequences . experimental implementation of the short tr , partial flip sequences that analytical work had predicted would be optimal supported the analytical predictions and demonstrated their validity . partial flip mr imaging is applicable to reducing imaging time only when the ratio of signal differences to noise exceeds threshold values in conventional mr images . partial flip sequences can be used to advantage in mr imaging of both the head and the body , and the observed effects are predictable through theoretical analysis . 
acne-associated spondylarthropathy : radiographic features . experience with six patients with severe acne and associated axial and peripheral arthritis is described . four of the patients had a dermatologic triad of severe acne , hidradenitis suppurativa , and dissecting cellulitis of the scalp , the so-called follicular occlusion triad . all were black men with episodic peripheral arthropathy and low back pain . one had inflammatory bowel disease . rheumatoid factor and hla-b27 were absent in five patients who had these determinations . an erosive and proliferative arthritis of the axial and appendicular skeleton is described . the radiographic findings were indistinguishable from those of the seronegative spondylarthropathies . we found no previous reports in the radiologic literature describing this articulocutaneous entity . 
mr imaging of the knee . part i . traumatic disorders . one hundred thirty patients with a diversity of knee joint injuries were evaluated with a high-resolution magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging technique . the authors report the accuracy of this technique in the evaluation of 105 patients with suspected meniscal tears , 26 patients with suspected cruciate ligament tears , and eight patients with suspected patellar tendon injuries . of those menisci rated as definitely or probably torn on mr imaging , 80 % were found to be torn at subsequent arthroscopy . the predictive value of negative mr imaging results was 100 % . mr imaging was 92 % accurate in predicting the clinical outcome in patients with suspected meniscal tears who did not undergo surgery . mr permitted complete disruption of the patellar tendon to be differentiated from partial tears , ligamentous inflammation , and localized effusion of the infrapatellar bursa . injuries to the anterior and posterior cruciate ligaments were identified on mr images , and the status of synthetic grafts of the anterior cruciate ligament was ascertained . 
mr imaging of the knee . part ii . chronic disorders . sixty patients with symptoms of chronic disease of the knee joint were evaluated with high-resolution , thin-section magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging . mr imaging depicted a wide variety of knee joint abnormalities including osteochondritis dissecans , medullary infarcts , epiphyseal osteonecrosis , intraarticular osteochondral fragments , synovial cysts , joint effusions , intraarticular soft-tissue tumors , synovial disease , leukemic infiltration of bone marrow , osgood-schlatter disease , and nonossifying fibroma . in two cases mr imaging depicted bone infarcts not seen on both radionuclide bone scans and standard radiographs . the highly detailed depiction of the articular cartilage was of particular importance in predicting arthroscopic findings in cases of osteochondritis dissecans . in two cases , a soft-tissue mass ( pigmented villonodular synovitis ) and a large osteochondral fragment undetected at arthroscopy were accurately localized with mr imaging . the results indicate that mr imaging is capable of providing information that might otherwise require multiple , sometimes invasive diagnostic procedures . 
athlete shoulder injuries : ct arthrographic findings . forty-three professional and amateur athletes with persistent shoulder pain that interfered with their sports activities were evaluated by computed tomographic ( ct ) arthrography . in 19 patients , glenohumeral instability ( 14 anterior , two posterior , three multidirectional ) was diagnosed with ct arthrography based on the simultaneous presence of labral and capsular lesions . the findings were crucial in establishing the diagnosis of instability in six patients in whom the condition was not suggested or could not be confirmed clinically . another significant injury consisted of labral lesions not associated with glenohumeral instability . these tears often involved the anterior and parasuperior segments of this structure . other , less frequently detected lesions included segmental labral enlargement and several labra with abnormal orientation ( everted labrum ) . early onset of degenerative disease was present in many athletes , especially those with a long history of sports activity . ct arthrographic findings were correlated with arthroscopic or surgical results in 19 patients . 
tumors of the osseous spine : staging with mr imaging versus ct . twelve patients with tumors involving the osseous spine were evaluated with magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging and computed tomography ( ct ) , six with and six without intrathecal injection of contrast material . mr imaging was found to be superior to ct without contrast material and equal to ct with contrast material in delineating the anatomic relationships of the tumors , including bone involvement , spinal canal invasion , paraspinal soft-tissue extension , and vascular involvement . since mr imaging can provide most of the anatomic information necessary for treatment planning , intrathecal injection of contrast material can be avoided in most instances when evaluating tumor involvement of the osseous spine . however , ct without contrast medium was superior to mr imaging in showing critical cortical bone destruction and calcified tumor matrix . 
spinal involvement in alveolar echinococcosis : assessment of two cases . two cases of spinal involvement in alveolar echinococcosis are reported . conventional radiographs showed bone lysis and spondylitis ; computed tomographic scans showed detail of local spread to the ribs , other vertebrae , and soft tissues . differential diagnosis , which includes other infections and hydatidosis , is difficult , and the diagnosis may be suggested by evidence of a primary hepatic focus , geographic propensity to the infection , and laboratory findings . 
aged venous thrombi : radioimmunoimaging with fibrin-specific monoclonal antibody . radioimmunoimaging of fresh canine venous thrombi with a murine monoclonal antibody specific for human and dog fibrin has been reported . successful imaging of canine deep venous thrombi 1 , 3 , and 5 days old at the time of antibody injection is reported . images were positive in all dogs , and the uptake of fibrin-specific antibody was equivalent to that of fresh thrombi . 
reinforced endotracheal tube placement : radiographic misdiagnosis . the position of an armored endotracheal tube was misinterpreted on radiographs . this occurred because no one recognized that there was no radiopaque line extending to the tip of the catheter . physicians should be aware of this possible pitfall , and manufacturers should remedy the situation by marking such lines on these tubes . 
scimitar syndrome : four new cases examined with ct [ letter ] 
mammography in women under age 30 : is there clinical benefit ? [ letter ] 
ischemic colitis : serial changes in double-contrast barium enema examination [ letter ] 
congenital rubella syndrome and physical growth : a 17-year , prospective , longitudinal follow-up in the ryukyu islands . the growth of 363 children who were born with congenital rubella syndrome ( crs ) after the 1965 rubella epidemic in the ryukyu islands in southern japan was followed prospectively from two through 17 years of age . the growth of children with cataract was obviously retarded ( in terms of both height and body weight ) when compared with that of other crs children ; the growth of the latter group ( height and weight ) was almost the same as that of the general healthy population by school age , although all crs children were small in the preschool years . all children with crs had smaller head circumferences than control children , with the smallest for the cataract group . the data indicate that children supposedly exposed to maternal clinical rubella before the 60th day of gestation grew poorly at least until the age of 17 years , whereas those supposedly infected after the 60th day began to return to a normal growth pattern from early school age . 
wounds caused by corn-harvesting machines : an unusual source of infection due to gram-negative bacilli . the infectious complications in 23 patients with mutilating wounds due to trauma during corn harvesting were compared with those in 41 patients with factory-related hand injuries of similar severity . initial cultures revealed bacterial growth in 89 % of the agricultural wounds and in 63 % of the factory wounds . a mean of 3.8 initial bacterial species were isolated per corn-harvesting wound vs . 0.9 species per factory wound . gram-negative rods were recovered from 81 % of the agricultural wounds ; the commonest of these organisms were enterobacter species and xanthomonas maltophilia . only 7 % of factory-wound cultures grew gram-negative rods . osteomyelitis , all with gram-negative rods , developed in five ( 22 % ) of the patients with farm injuries but did not occur in patients with factory wounds . more gram-negative rods were recovered from environmental cultures of corn-harvesting machines and corn plants than from those of factory machinery . 
protothecal olecranon bursitis : treatment with intrabursal amphotericin b . a patient is described from whom repeated olecranon bursa fluid cultures yielded prototheca wickerhamii . following intrabursal instillation of amphotericin b , the cultures became negative . there was no progression of infection or adverse consequences of this treatment . review of the literature regarding this unusual infection reveals seven reported cases of protothecal olecranon bursitis . five cases from which sufficient information was provided were diagnosed by histologic examination of excised bursa that showed the characteristic sporangia . 
botulism in china . during the period 1958-1983 , 986 outbreaks of botulism occurred in china , affecting 4 , 377 individuals and resulting in 548 deaths . the initial cases of botulism were found in xinjiang province , where the incidence was highest . outbreaks have occurred in all of the northern provinces and in some of the southern provinces of china . the toxin found most frequently in the northwest region of china was type a ; in north china , type b ; and in the northeast , type e . the most frequently offending food was home-made strong-smelling preserved bean curd , which was implicated in 74 % of the outbreaks . the complex clinical manifestations of botulism can be grouped into those affecting the eyes , the mouth , the pharynx , and the skeletal muscles . following the institution of effective methods of prevention and treatment , epidemics of botulism in china have been controlled and the mortality rate reduced from 41 % ( 1950s ) to 7.6 % ( 1983 ) . 
single-dose pharmacokinetics of intravenous sulbactam in pediatric patients . the pharmacokinetics of intravenously administered sulbactam were studied in 17 pediatric patients two to 14 years of age . single doses of 12.5 or 25 mg / kg were infused over 3 min , and in previously healthy children , mean peak plasma concentrations 5 min after dosing were 71 and 163 micrograms / ml , respectively . noncompartmental and compartmental calculations resulted in similar pharmacokinetic parameters . linear pharmacokinetics were found in the concentration range studied . the mean terminal-phase half-life was 1.75 hr , the mean total plasma clearance was 180 ml / min per 1.73 m2 , and the mean apparent volume of distribution was 340 ml / kg . approximately 70 % -80 % of an intravenous dose was excreted unchanged in the urine . in children with cystic fibrosis , both total plasma clearance and apparent volume of distribution were significantly increased . the data support the intravenous administration of 12.5-25 mg of sulbactam / kg every 6 to 8 hr for assessing the adequacy of this drug as an adjunct to beta-lactam therapy for various bacterial infections in children . 
pharmacokinetic study of sulbactam and ampicillin administered concomitantly by intraarterial or intravenous infusion in the newborn . the combination of sulbactam and ampicillin was administered to 16 newborn infants , 15 preterm and one term , who required umbilical arterial or venous catheterization and prophylactic antibiotics . the aims were to determine an appropriate dosage regimen and to study the pharmacokinetics . satisfactory plasma concentrations were achieved with administration of a bolus injection of 50 mg of each drug / kg every 12 hr ( mean concentrations : sulbactam , 110 mg / liter ; ampicillin , 87 mg / liter 3 hr after dosing ; and sulbactam , 105 and 135 mg / liter ; ampicillin , 320 and 310 mg / liter 30 min after dosing in two infants . mean elimination half-lives were longer than those in adults ( sulbactam , 7.9 hr ; ampicillin , 9.4 hr ) , and urinary excretion over 12 hr varied considerably ( range : sulbactam , 7 % -91 % ; ampicillin , 5 % -132 % ) , rates reflecting the immature renal function in the newborn and the relative oliguria characteristic of preterm infants with idiopathic respiratory distress syndrome . there was little evidence of accumulation of either drug , and both were well tolerated . this combination and dosage should be suitable for a trial of therapy for infection in the newborn . 
stability of sulbactam / ampicillin in diluents for parenteral administration . compatibility studies were conducted of sulbactam / ampicillin in infusion diluents that are reported to be compatible with ampicillin sodium . a high-performance liquid chromatographic system that simultaneously detects sulbactam and ampicillin was used to determine whether the infusion diluents and the conditions of use recommended for ampicillin sodium are applicable to sulbactam / ampicillin . the results show that the sulbactam / ampicillin preparation for parenteral administration is compatible with all diluents recommended for ampicillin sodium . in all diluents sulbactam was more stable than ampicillin . at the end of the reported use periods , the average retention value for sulbactam in the combination solutions was 96 % ( range , 91 % -101 % ) , whereas the average retention value for ampicillin in the same solutions was 90 % ( range , 84 % -95 % ) . the presence of sulbactam had no adverse effect on the stability of ampicillin . the average retention value for ampicillin alone in the same diluents was 92 % ( range , 82 % -99 % ) . the conditions of use for sulbactam / ampicillin in diluents for parenteral administration are unrestricted by the presence of sulbactam and are , in fact , governed by those of ampicillin sodium . 
sulbactam / ampicillin : in vitro spectrum , potency , and activity in models of acute infection . more than 90 % of community hospital-isolated strains of staphylococcus ( including methicillin-resistant isolates ) , streptococcus , haemophilus , neisseria , branhamella , bacteroides , escherichia coli , klebsiella , enterobacter aerogenes , proteus , and acinetobacter calcoaceticus were inhibited by the sulbactam / ampicillin ( 1 : 2 ) combination at concentrations of 8 micrograms / 16 micrograms per ml . the peak serum level from a 15-min infusion of 1 g / 2 g of sulbactam / ampicillin is more than seven times this 90 % end point . excellent bactericidal activity was demonstrated against ampicillin-resistant isolates . ampicillin-resistant strains did not develop resistance to sulbactam / ampicillin when they were serially transferred in the presence of sublethal concentrations of the combination . in mice the combination was active against a variety of acute , fatal infections produced by ampicillin-resistant bacterial isolates , including methicillin-resistant strains of staphylococcus aureus and mixed anaerobes . the in vitro and in vivo properties of sulbactam / ampicillin , coupled with its reliable pharmacokinetic performance , appear to make the combination ideally suited for the treatment of polymicrobial ( aerobe-anaerobe ) infections . 
effect of prophylactic administration of sulbactam / ampicillin on the rate of postoperative endometritis after first-trimester abortion . in a single-blind randomized study , the efficacy of a single intravenous dose of sulbactam ( 0.5 g ) plus ampicillin ( 1 g ) was compared with that of placebo in the prophylaxis of early postoperative endometritis after abortion with vacuum aspiration in the first trimester . administration of either sulbactam / ampicillin or placebo occurred immediately before the operation . the two treatment groups were equally matched with respect to patient 's age , gestational age , presence of an intrauterine device , and baseline bacteriologic findings . during the first seven postoperative days , four of 145 patients who had received sulbactam / ampicillin and 11 of 140 patients who had received placebo were diagnosed as having endometritis . no adverse effects and no laboratory test abnormalities attributable to treatment were reported in either group . a single dose of sulbactam / ampicillin reduced the incidence of early postoperative endometritis after abortion with vacuum aspiration in the first trimester . 
efficacy of sulbactam plus ampicillin in gynecologic infections . the efficacy of sulbactam plus ampicillin in the treatment of various gynecologic infections was evaluated in 24 women ( median age , 35 years ) . ten women had pelvic cellulitis plus vaginal cuff abscess ; six , pyeloperitonitis ; three , vaginal cuff abscess ; three , surgical wound sepsis ; one , tubo-ovarian abscess ; and one , endometritis . surgical procedures preceding infection included abdominal hysterectomy , ovarian cyst removal , ectopic pregnancy , correction of cystocele , and uterine dilatation and curettage . twenty patients received 1 g of sulbactam plus 1 g of ampicillin per dose ; four received 0.5 g of sulbactam plus 1 g of ampicillin per dose . the combination was given iv every 6 hr for three to four days and then im every 8 hr for three to five days ( mean treatment duration , seven days ) . pus cultures yielded enterobacteriaceae ( 21 cases ) , enterococci ( two ) , bacteroides fragilis ( 12 ) , other bacteroides species ( five ) , peptococcus species ( nine ) , peptostreptococcus species ( seven ) , and other anaerobes ( five ) . six infections were purely anaerobic ; 18 were mixed . all but two infections were cured by both clinical and bacteriologic criteria , with no adverse reactions . parenteral sulbactam / ampicillin seems safe and effective in the treatment of gynecologic infections of moderate severity . 
a randomized controlled trial of ampicillin plus sulbactam vs . gentamicin plus clindamycin in the treatment of intraabdominal infections : a preliminary report . study group of intraabdominal infections . this is a preliminary report of a comparative study of sulbactam plus ampicillin ( sulbactam / ampicillin ) vs . gentamicin plus clindamycin ( gentamicin / clindamycin ) in surgically treated patients with intraabdominal infections . among 46 assessable patients in the sulbactam / ampicillin group , 40 were clinically cured or improved as compared with 36 of 37 patients in the gentamicin / clindamycin group . among 40 microbiologically assessable patients in the sulbactam / ampicillin group , the pathogen was eradicated in 33 patients and partially eradicated in two , whereas eradication was recorded in 21 and partial eradication in 10 of the 32 patients in the gentamicin / clindamycin group . among 150 aerobic isolates , 14 were resistant to sulbactam / ampicillin , 27 were resistant to gentamicin / clindamycin , and 85 were beta-lactamase producers . no resistance to sulbactam / ampicillin was found in 75 anaerobic isolates , whereas one anaerobic isolate was resistant to clindamycin . this preliminary report suggests that ampicillin / sulbactam is a useful nontoxic alterative to gentamicin / clindamycin in the treatment of intraabdominal infections . 
biliary pharmacokinetics of sulbactam plus ampicillin in humans . the biliary pharmacokinetics of sulbactam and ampicillin was investigated in 19 patients with normal liver function who were undergoing surgery of the biliary tract . the combination of sulbactam ( 0.5 g ) plus ampicillin ( 1 g ) was given intravenously to five patients with t-tube drainage of the common bile duct . mean peak concentrations of sulbactam ( 19.4 micrograms / ml ) and ampicillin ( 471 micrograms / ml ) in the bile occurred 0.5-1 hr after administration . biliary excretion was estimated to account for approximately 0.24 % of the sulbactam dose and 2.8 % of the ampicillin dose . fourteen other patients received the same dose of sulbactam / ampicillin immediately before elective cholecystectomy . respective mean concentrations of sulbactam and ampicillin at the time of gallbladder removal were 4.3 micrograms / ml and 15.9 micrograms / ml in gallbladder bile and 6.3 micrograms / g and 7.7 micrograms / g in gallbladder wall tissue . these results , together with the antibacterial spectrum and potency of the combination , suggest that sulbactam / ampicillin is suitable for prophylactic use in biliary tract surgery . 
an open , comparative study of sulbactam plus ampicillin vs . cefotaxime as initial therapy for serious soft tissue and bone and joint infections . in an open , randomized , comparative study , patients with bone , joint , or soft-tissue infections were treated with sulbactam sodium plus ampicillin ( sulbactam / ampicillin , 1 g of sulbactam and 2 g of ampicillin three times a day ) or with cefotaxime ( 2 g three times a day ) for two weeks as initial therapy . thirteen patients were entered into the sulbactam / ampicillin group and nine into the cefotaxime group . two weeks after the end of therapy , clinical cure or improvement was observed in all 13 patients treated with sulbactam / ampicillin and in seven of nine patients treated with cefotaxime . staphylococcus aureus was not eliminated from one patient in each group . recurrence of s . aureus infection occurred in two patients in the cefotaxime group within two weeks after the end of therapy . no adverse effects warranting discontinuation of antibiotic therapy were observed . the combination of sulbactam sodium plus ampicillin was at least equivalent to cefotaxime for the initial treatment of acute serious soft tissue and bone and joint infections . 
sulbactam / ampicillin vs . chloramphenicol / ampicillin for the treatment of meningitis in infants and children . eighty-one patients ages one month to 14 years with meningitis were randomized to receive either sulbactam ( 50 mg / kg per day ) and ampicillin ( 400 mg / kg per day ; 41 patients ) or chloramphenicol and ampicillin ( 40 patients ) . the groups were comparable in terms of sex and degree of illness ; however , more patients treated with chloramphenicol / ampicillin than patients treated with sulbactam / ampicillin were younger than 12 months of age ( 78 % vs . 56 % ) . pathogens were isolated from the cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) of 65 ( 80 % ) of the 81 patients . in the sulbactam / ampicillin group , there were 18 haemophilus influenzae isolates ( one resistant to ampicillin ) , five streptococcus pneumoniae , five neisseria meningitidis , one klebsiella pneumoniae , one pseudomonas aeruginosa , and one listeria . in the chloramphenicol / ampicillin group , there were 19 h . influenzae isolates , 10 s . pneumoniae , three n . meningitidis , one haemophilus parainfluenzae , and one citrobacter . of 63 patients with assessable csf pathogens , one ( 3 % ) of 29 treated with sulbactam / ampicillin died ( s . pneumoniae ) and six ( 18 % ) of 34 treated with chloramphenicol / ampicillin died ( two , h . influenzae ; three , s . pneumoniae ; and one , citrobacter ) . twelve percent in the sulbactam / ampicillin group and 18 % in the chloramphenicol / ampicillin group had neurologic sequelae . no clinically significant reactions or toxicities were noted . sulbactam / ampicillin was as effective as chloramphenicol / ampicillin in the treatment of meningitis . 
a randomized comparative study of sulbactam plus ampicillin vs . metronidazole plus cefotaxime in the management of acute appendicitis in children . sulbactam is a beta-lactamase inhibitor that , when combined with ampicillin , gives the latter antibiotic a broad spectrum of activity , making it suitable for use as a prophylactic agent in acute appendicitis . in a single-blind , randomized trial , the efficacy of sulbactam plus ampicillin was compared with that of metronidazole plus cefotaxime . thirty-five children undergoing appendectomy received intravenous sulbactam and ampicillin , while 38 children received metronidazole and cefotaxime . single doses were given unless the appendix was considered gangrenous or perforated , in which case the drugs were administered for 72 hr . there were three wound infections in the group given sulbactam and ampicillin and five in the group given metronidazole and cefotaxime . the combination of sulbactam and ampicillin was well tolerated and appeared to be at least as effective as that of metronidazole and cefotaxime in the prevention of sepsis following appendectomy . 
liposomes . 
recombinant dna : international guidelines [ letter ] 
growth hormone use [ letter ] 
human values in medical schools [ news ] 
delayed transneuronal death of substantia nigra neurons prevented by gamma-aminobutyric acid agonist . in an investigation of the mechanism by which brain lesions result in delayed degeneration of neurons remote from the site of injury , neurons within the caudate nucleus of rats were destroyed by local injection of the excitotoxin ibotenic acid . treatment resulted in the rapid degeneration of the striatonigral pathway including projections containing the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) and delayed transneuronal death of neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata . the distribution of nigral cell loss corresponded to the loss of gabaergic terminals . neuronal death was prevented by long-term intraventricular infusion of the gaba agonist muscimol . delayed transneuronal degeneration may be produced by neuronal disinhibition consequent to loss of inhibitory inputs . replacement of inhibitory transmitters by suitable drugs may prevent some forms of delayed neuronal death . 
restoration of ldl receptor activity in mutant cells by intercellular junctional communication . exchange of small molecules between cells through intercellular junctions is a widespread phenomenon implicated in many physiological and developmental processes . this type of intercellular communication can restore the activity of low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) receptors in mammalian cells that are deficient in the enzyme udp-gal / udp-galnac 4-epimerase . pure cultures of the 4-epimerase mutant are unable to synthesize normal carbohydrate chains on ldl receptors and many other glycoproteins and therefore do not express ldl receptor activity . when these cells are cocultivated with cells expressing normal 4-epimerase activity , the structure and function of ldl receptors are restored to normal by the transfer of this enzyme 's products through intercellular junctions . the formation of functional junctions does not require normal glycosylation of membrane proteins . because many convenient assays and selections for ldl receptor activity are available , this mutant can provide a powerful new tool for biochemical and genetic studies of intercellular junctional communication . 
increased numbers of ion channels promoted by an intracellular second messenger . the anomalous rectifier potassium current in aplysia neurons was examined to determine the immediate cause of an increase in conductance induced by serotonin and mediated by adenosine 3 ' , 5'-monophosphate . voltage-dependent cesium ion block and steady-state current power spectral density were measured under voltage clamp before and after application of serotonin . the amplitude of the anomalous rectifier conductance was increased by adding serotonin , but the shapes of the conductance-voltage curve and the power spectrum were not altered . calculation of the number of functional channels and of the single-channel conductance from the power spectra indicates that the serotonin-induced increase in conductance resulted from an increase in the number of functional channels , while the single-channel conductance and the open-channel probability were unchanged . 
fraud in science [ editorial ] 
misuse of the freedom of information act [ letter ] 
quality of biomedical literature [ letter ] 
quantitative risk aspects of the " woburn case " [ letter ] 
moonlight and circadian rhythms [ letter ] 
research practices [ letter ] 
science budget : more of the same [ news ] 
oncogenes give breast cancer prognosis [ news ] 
diabetics should lose weight , avoid diet fads [ news ] 
human breast cancer : correlation of relapse and survival with amplification of the her-2 / neu oncogene . the her-2 / neu oncogene is a member of the erbb-like oncogene family , and is related to , but distinct from , the epidermal growth factor receptor . this gene has been shown to be amplified in human breast cancer cell lines . in the current study , alterations of the gene in 189 primary human breast cancers were investigated . her-2 / neu was found to be amplified from 2- to greater than 20-fold in 30 % of the tumors . correlation of gene amplification with several disease parameters was evaluated . amplification of the her-2 / neu gene was a significant predictor of both overall survival and time to relapse in patients with breast cancer . it retained its significance even when adjustments were made for other known prognostic factors . moreover , her-2 / neu amplification had greater prognostic value than most currently used prognostic factors , including hormonal-receptor status , in lymph node-positive disease . these data indicate that this gene may play a role in the biologic behavior and / or pathogenesis of human breast cancer . 
the atomic structure of mengo virus at 3.0 a resolution . the structure of mengo virus , a representative member of the cardio picornaviruses , is substantially different from the structures of rhino- and polioviruses . the structure of mengo virus was solved with the use of human rhinovirus 14 as an 8 a resolution structural approximation . phase information was then extended to 3 a resolution by use of the icosahedral symmetry . this procedure gives promise that many other virus structures also can be determined without the use of the isomorphous replacement technique . although the organization of the major capsid proteins vp1 , vp2 , and vp3 of mengo virus is essentially the same as in rhino- and polioviruses , large insertions and deletions , mostly in vp1 , radically alter the surface features . in particular , the putative receptor binding " canyon " of human rhinovirus 14 becomes a deep " pit " in mengo virus because of polypeptide insertions in vp1 that fill part of the canyon . the minor capsid peptide , vp4 , is completely internal in mengo virus , but its association with the other capsid proteins is substantially different from that in rhino- or poliovirus . however , its carboxyl terminus is located at a position similar to that in human rhinovirus 14 and poliovirus , suggesting the same autocatalytic cleavage of vp0 to vp4 and vp2 takes place during assembly in all these picornaviruses . 
metalloregulatory dna-binding protein encoded by the merr gene : isolation and characterization . the merr protein mediates the induction of the mercury resistance phenotype in bacteria ; it has been isolated in order to study the effects of metal-ion induced changes in the metabolism of prokaryotic cells at the molecular level . after dna sequences responsible for negative autoregulation were removed , the 16-kilodalton protein was overproduced and purified to more than 90 percent homogeneity by a salt extraction procedure that yields about 5 milligrams of protein per gram of cells . complementation data , amino terminal analysis , gel filtration , and deoxyribonuclease i protection studies demonstrate that the purified merr gene product is a dimer under nondenaturing conditions and that it binds specifically to dna , in the presence and absence of mercury , at a palindromic site which is directly between the -10 and -35 regions of the structural genes and adjacent to its own promoter . these initial results indicate that merr is a dna-binding metalloregulatory protein that plays a central role in this heavy metal responsive system and they delineate an operator site in the mer operon . 
nerve growth factor treatment after brain injury prevents neuronal death . cholinergic neuronal degeneration after axotomy has been proposed to be due to the loss of a retrogradely transported neurotrophic factor , possibly nerve growth factor ( ngf ) . to test this hypothesis , ngf was continuously infused into the lateral ventricles of adult rats that had received bilateral lesions of all cholinergic axons projecting from the medial septum to the dorsal hippocampus . after 2 weeks of ngf treatment , identification of cholinergic neurons by the presence of the biosynthetic enzyme choline acetyltransferase revealed a dramatic increase ( 350 % ) in the survival of the axotomized septal cholinergic neurons . thus , ngf or an ngf-like molecule can act as a neurotrophic factor for these neurons . 
lung cancer and indoor air pollution in xuan wei , china . in xuan wei county , yunnan province , lung cancer mortality is among china 's highest and , especially in females , is more closely associated with indoor burning of " smoky " coal , as opposed to wood or " smokeless " coal , than with tobacco smoking . indoor air samples were collected during the burning of all three fuels . in contrast to wood and smokeless coal emissions , smoky coal emission has high concentrations of submicron particles containing mutagenic organics , especially in aromatic and polar fractions . these studies suggested an etiologic link between domestic smoky coal burning and lung cancer in xuan wei . 
preferred microtubules for vesicle transport in lobster axons . the hypothesis that transported vesicles are preferentially associated with a subclass of microtubules has been tested in lobster axons . a cold block was used to collect moving vesicles in these axons ; this treatment caused the vesicles to accumulate in files along some of the microtubules . quantitative analysis of the number of vesicles associated with microtubule segments indicated that lobster axons have two distinct populations of microtubules--transport microtubules that are the preferred substrates for vesicle transport and architectural microtubules that contribute to axonal structure . 
genbank status report [ letter ] 
" toxic torts " [ letter ] 
nih finds argentine experiment did not break u.s. biotechnology rules [ news ] 
multiple conformational states of proteins : a molecular dynamics analysis of myoglobin . a molecular dynamics simulation of myoglobin provides the first direct demonstration that the potential energy surface of a protein is characterized by a large number of thermally accessible minima in the neighborhood of the native structure ( for example , approximately 2000 minima were sampled in a 300-picosecond trajectory ) . this is expected to have important consequences for the interpretation of the activity of transport proteins and enzymes . different minima correspond to changes in the relative orientation of the helices coupled with side-chain rearrangements that preserve the close packing of the protein interior . the conformational space sampled by the simulation is similar to that found in the evolutionary development of the globins . glasslike behavior is expected at low temperatures . the minima obtained from the trajectory do not satisfy certain criteria for ultrametricity . 
cellular and subcellular heterogeneity of [ ca2+ ] i in single heart cells revealed by fura-2 . digital imaging of calcium indicator signals ( fura-2 fluorescence ) from single cardiac cells has revealed different subcellular patterns of cytoplasmic calcium ion concentration ( [ ca2+ ] i ) that are associated with different types of cellular appearance and behavior . in any population of enzymatically isolated rat heart cells , there are mechanically quiescent cells in which [ ca2+ ] i is spatially uniform , constant over time , and relatively low ; spontaneously contracting cells , which have an increased [ ca2+ ] i , but in which the spatial uniformity of [ ca2+ ] i is interrupted periodically by spontaneous propagating waves of high [ ca2+ ] i ; and cells that are hypercontracted ( rounded up ) and that have higher levels of [ ca2+ ] i than the other two types . the observed cellular and subcellular heterogeneity of [ ca2+ ] i in isolated cells indicates that experiments performed on suspensions of cells should be interpreted with caution . the spontaneous [ ca2+ ] i fluctuations previously observed without spatial resolution in multicellular preparations may actually be inhomogeneous at the subcellular level . 
lunar-modulated geomagnetic orientation by a marine mollusk . behavioral experiments indicated that the marine opisthobranch mollusk tritonia diomedea can derive directional cues from the magnetic field of the earth . the magnetic direction toward which nudibranchs spontaneously oriented in the geomagnetic field showed recurring patterns of variation correlated with lunar phase , suggesting that the behavioral response to magnetism is modulated by a circa-lunar rhythm . the discovery of a magnetic sense in a mollusk with giant , reidentifiable neurons provides a unique opportunity to study the cellular mechanisms underlying magnetic field detection . 
slow transport of tubulin in the neurites of differentiated pc12 cells . in order to study the rate and form of tubulin transport in cultured neuronal cells , the fluorescence recovery after the photobleaching of a fluorescent tubulin analog has been followed within the neuritic processes of differentiated pc12 cells . in these cells , as in peripheral axons , tubulin is transported in coherent , nondiffusing waves at two different slow rates that are within the range of the slow components a and b of axonal transport measured in vivo . finally , it appears that most , if not all , of the tubulin analog is moving out these processes . thus , slow neuroplasmic transport in cultured neuron-like cells is a good model of axonal transport , in which experimental manipulations of the system can be performed that would be difficult in the whole animal . 
cytosolic acidification as an early transductory signal of human neutrophil chemotaxis . the inflammatory reaction of human neutrophils consists of two successive phases . in the first , designated chemotaxis , the cells home in on a foreign intruder . in the second , the cells attempt to eliminate the intruder by secreting lysosomal enzymes and superoxide anions . the initiation of chemotaxis involves prompt morphological changes that are manifested by a sharp biphasic drop in light scattering , accompanied by a transient cytosolic acidification . in a search for a causal relation between these two events , the neutrophil cytoplasm was abruptly acidified by the application of sodium propionate . this evoked a pulse of decreasing light-scattering , the time course and amplitude of which were practically identical to the rapid response induced by chemoattractants such as n-formyl-l-methionyl-l-leucyl-l-phenylalanine ( fmlp ) . both fmlp- and sodium propionate-induced responses were unaffected by amiloride , but were inhibited with a similar dose-dependence by a series of proton uncouplers . the initial phase of the cytosolic acidification seems , therefore , to fulfill the criteria for a second messenger for the initiation of chemotaxis . 
forskolin and phorbol esters reduce the same potassium conductance of mouse neurons in culture . second messenger systems may modulate neuronal activity through protein phosphorylation . however , interactions between two major second messenger pathways , the cyclic amp and phosphatidylinositol systems , are not well understood . the effects of activators of cyclic amp-dependent protein kinase and protein kinase c on resting membrane properties , action potentials , and currents recorded from mouse dorsal root ganglion neurons and cerebral hemisphere neurons grown in primary dissociated cell culture were investigated . neither forskolin ( for ) nor phorbol 12 , 13-dibutyrate ( pdbu ) altered resting membrane properties but both increased the duration of calcium-dependent action potentials in both central and peripheral neurons . by means of the single-electrode voltage clamp technique , for and pdbu were shown to decrease the same voltage-dependent potassium conductance . this suggests that two independent second messenger systems may affect the same potassium conductance . 
antidepressant and circadian phase-shifting effects of light . bright light can suppress nighttime melatonin production in humans , but ordinary indoor light does not have this effect . this finding suggested that bright light may have other chronobiologic effects in humans as well . eight patients who regularly became depressed in the winter ( as day length shortens ) significantly improved after 1 week of exposure to bright light in the morning ( but not after 1 week of bright light in the evening ) . the antidepressant response to morning light was accompanied by an advance ( shift to an earlier time ) in the onset of nighttime melatonin production . these results suggest that timing may be critical for the antidepressant effects of bright light . 
integrity of research papers questioned [ news ] 
biological issues in schizophrenia [ news ] 
a top priority at nimh [ news ] 
dietary fat-breast cancer link questioned [ news ] 
the glucocorticoid receptor protein binds to transfer rna . the glucocorticoid receptor from mouse att-20 cells exists in three forms : the untransformed receptor ( 9.1s ; mr of 319 , 000 ) , a large oligomeric molecule that does not bind to dna ; the transformed receptor ( 4s ; mr of 96 , 000 ) , which is formed by dissociation of untransformed receptor after steroid binding and which binds to dna to modulate gene expression ; and an intermediate size receptor ( 6s ; mr of 132 , 000 ) , which also binds to dna and contains a bound small rna molecule . this rna species has now been purified and identified as transfer rna ( trna ) . the three trna 's for the basic amino acids accounted for about 78 % of the total amino acid-accepting activity [ arginine ( 52 % ) , lysine ( 17 % ) , and histidine ( 9 % ) ] , while the remaining 22 % was represented by six other trna species . this trna-binding activity of the glucocorticoid receptor may reflect post-transcriptional mechanisms of regulating gene expression , such as alterations in the translational efficiency of or the modulation of the stability of hormone-induced proteins . 
macrophage cytotoxicity : role for l-arginine deiminase and imino nitrogen oxidation to nitrite . previous studies have shown that cytotoxic activated macrophages cause inhibition of dna synthesis , of mitochondrial respiration , and of aconitase activity in tumor target cells . an l-arginine-dependent biochemical pathway synthesizing l-citrulline and nitrite , coupled to an effector mechanism , is now shown to cause this pattern of metabolic inhibition . murine cytotoxic activated macrophages synthesize l-citrulline and nitrite in the presence of l-arginine but not d-arginine . l-citrulline and nitrite biosynthesis by cytotoxic activated macrophages is inhibited by ng-monomethyl-l-arginine , which also inhibits this cytotoxic effector mechanism . this activated macrophage cytotoxic effector system is associated with l-arginine deiminase activity , and the imino nitrogen removed from the guanido group of l-arginine by the deiminase reaction subsequently undergoes oxidation to nitrite . l-homoarginine , an alternative substrate for this deiminase , is converted to l-homocitrulline with concurrent nitrite synthesis and similar biologic effects . 
penetrating wounds of the back and flank : analysis of 77 cases . to determine the factors that allow early recognition of injuries to the intrathoracic and intra-abdominal organs in patients with penetrating wounds to the lower thorax and abdomen with site of entrance located in the back or flanks , we retrospectively analyzed the cases of 77 such patients . there were 65 stab wounds ( 85 % ) and 12 gunshot wounds ( 15 % ) . the injuries were confined to the abdomen in 46 ( 60 % ) ; 39 were stab wounds and seven were gunshot wounds . the wounds were confined to the chest in 24 patients ( 31 % ) and involved both the chest and abdomen in seven cases ( 9 % ) . of the 53 abdominal wounds , 21 necessitated celiotomy ; in 20 of them , an intra-abdominal organ was found injured , and one patient died ( 1.9 % ) . of the 24 injuries confined to the chest , only one patient required emergency thoracotomy due to massive hemorrhage ; all 24 patients survived . all of the seven thoracoabdominal injuries , two produced by gunshot and five by stabbing , necessitated celiotomy . most patients with gunshot wounds to the back and flanks require celiotomy , but a selective therapy can be safely used in patients with stab wounds . the rate of negative exploratory celiotomy was less than 5 % ; the mortality was 1.3 % . 
penetrating neck injuries : experience with selective exploration . although many authors have stated that surgical exploration should be mandatory for all neck wounds that penetrate the platysma , recent reports from many centers now claim that selective exploration is both safe and reasonable . a policy of selective exploration based on clinical presentation , anatomic location , and results of diagnostic studies has been followed at the cooper green hospital in birmingham , alabama , for the past 13 years . we report a study of penetrating neck wounds in 136 consecutive patients admitted to the cooper green hospital from 1972 to 1984. seventy-seven patients ( 57 % ) had exploration immediately , with one death , while the remaining 59 ( 43 % ) were admitted and observed . of these 59 patients , ten had arch aortography and nine had esophagography , all of which yielded normal results . the remainder of the patients observed had no clinical signs or symptoms to suggest a major injury . there were no deaths or complications related to the neck wounds in the 59 patients observed . results of 27 explorations ( 35 % ) were negative . we conclude that selective exploration of penetrating neck wounds is both safe and reasonable . 
needle-localized biopsy of occult breast lesions . over a 3 1 / 2-year period , we did 121 needle-localized breast biopsies for nonpalpable , mammographically suggestive lesions . the presence of a mass lesion on mammography with or without microcalcifications was associated with malignancy more frequently than microcalcifications alone . in 15 cases ( 12.4 % ) , biopsy showed malignancy ; 13 patients had modified radical mastectomy , with 11 ( 85 % ) having no histologic evidence of axillary metastases . evaluation of risk factors associated with breast cancer in those patients with positive biopsy results showed that advanced age and a past history of a breast cancer were present in a significant number of patients . four patients ( 3.5 % ) had complications ; a hematoma developed in one ( 0.8 % ) , and three ( 2.7 % ) required a second biopsy to remove the suggestive mammographic lesion . we conclude that needle-localized breast biopsy is a reliable tool in detecting early breast carcinoma . the procedure causes only minimal morbidity and we believe it should be done in all patients with mammographically suggestive , nonpalpable breast lesions . 
abnormalities of the cervical spine in down 's syndrome : diagnosis , risks , and review of the literature , with particular reference to the special olympics . over a four-month period , we did roentgenographic examinations of the cervical spine on 35 individuals with down 's syndrome , most of whom planned to participate in the special olympics . there were abnormalities in 40 % , the most frequent being atlantoaxial subluxation . the presentations , risks , and recognition of this abnormality are discussed , as well as the pathomechanics . many parents and some physicians may still be unaware of the possible hazards involving these spinal abnormalities , and of the recommendations and screening procedures that should be followed before individuals with down 's syndrome engage in strenuous activities . 
latissimus dorsi flap : a valuable resource in lower arm reconstruction . lower arm reconstruction of soft tissue defects and after ablation for cancer leaves the reconstructive surgeon few alternatives . we have used latissimus dorsi muscle ( n = 1 ) and musculocutaneous flaps ( n = 3 ) with good functional and cosmetic results . defects in one patient with traumatic amputation , another with extravasation of doxorubicin , and two with cancer were closed without complications to donor site , recipient site , or flap . skin paddle size averaged 182 sq cm in the three musculocutaneous flaps . mean follow-up was six months . 
transsphincteric approach to lesions of the rectum . transsphincteric posterior resection of villous adenomas and small carcinomas restored gastrointestinal continuity and preserved continence in 25 of 26 patients in this study . no patient had local recurrence . this procedure is suitable for villous tumors that are too high for transanal or too low for transabdominal resection , and for small mobile malignancies of the lower 5 cm of the rectum . 
correlation of standard diagnostic studies with surgically proven lumbar disk rupture . one hundred patients with surgically proven ruptured lumbar disks were studied in terms of their diagnostic work-up . four studies--electromyogram , ct scan , myelogram , and epidural venogram--were evaluated independently and in combination . no one study was consistently abnormal ; however , epidural venography was diagnostic in 74 % of cases . ct scanning and electromyographic examination , when used in combination , were found to be reliable in confirming the diagnosis of lumbar disk rupture in 84 % of cases . in no instance were all preoperative diagnostic studies normal when a diagnosis of herniated nucleus pulposus was proven surgically . it seems , therefore , that a detailed history and physical examination in combination with a positive result in at least one of the diagnostic studies appears sufficient to establish the diagnosis of lumbar disk rupture . 
atypical mycobacteria causing pulmonary disease : rapid diagnosis using skin test profiles . purified protein derivatives ( ppds ) prepared from m tuberculosis ( ppd-s ) , m kansasii ( ppd-y ) , m scrofulaceum ( ppd-g ) , m avium ( ppd-a ) , m intracellulare ( ppd-b ) , and m fortuitum ( ppd-f ) were used simultaneously as skin tests to elicit profiles of reactivity in patients with clinical pulmonary disease roentgenologically suggestive of mycobacteriosis . these profiles were useful in delineating the specific cause of mycobacterial disease weeks before bacteriologic confirmation by culture , and they provided a basis for early treatment . when bacteriologic confirmation was attained , the diagnosis suggested by skin testing was correct . treatment regimens for non-m tuberculosis ( atypical ) mycobacterial disease varied : a two- to three-drug regimen in the treatment of m avium or m intracellulare disease was ineffective and inappropriate , whereas a five-drug regimen without surgical excision of residual disease produced good results . combining surgical resection with the five-drug regimen before and after operation produced the best results , however , with all patients showing apparent cure . 
mastocytosis : one year 's experience . the diagnosis of systemic mastocytosis without urticaria pigmentosa has been made with increasing frequency since modern methods of histamine assay have been used clinically . we examined the incidence of urticaria-angioedema and mastocytosis over a recent 12-month period . of 490 new patients we saw , 52 had urticaria-angioedema , and ten had evidence of excess histamine + / - pgd2 , with at least ten mast cells per high-power field on skin biopsy . the average age was approximately 35 years ; the male : female ratio was 1 : 4 for urticaria-angioedema and 1 : 2 for mastocytosis . symptoms of mastocytosis included flushing , abdominal cramping / diarrhea , syncope , urticaria-angioedema , pruritus , and headache . symptoms have typically been prevented by a combination of h1 and h2 antagonists , with addition of a cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor in syncopal cases . acute hypotension has responded to epinephrine . 
contemporary use of the disease concept : ii . the question of anemia . of 105 admissions to a medical service , 64 involved anemia ( defined as a hematocrit value of less than 38 % ) at some time during the admission . chart review revealed that the disease concept was not being used , as most of the anemias were unnoticed or undiagnosed , and most of the diagnoses that were made were incorrect . 
what 's in a name ? 
pseudallescheria boydii arthritis and osteomyelitis in a patient with cushing 's disease . pseudallescheria boydii infection involving the left distal femur and knee joint developed in a patient with cushing 's disease , and recurred after treatment with both intravenous miconazole and intravenous amphotericin b . the patient subsequently had synovectomy and arthrodesis , and received ketoconazole , 600 mg per day orally for one year . concurrent with the start of ketoconazole , a bilateral adrenalectomy was done to control endogenous hypercortisolism . the patient 's infection then resolved , and one year afterward there is no clinical or radiologic evidence of recurrent infection . 
aspiration pneumonia in an infant with pharyngonasal reflux and left-sided vocal cord paralysis . 
venous air embolism . this case report describes a new radiologic finding , that of an air-fluid level in the pulmonary artery . this is pathognomonic of venous air embolism when the patient has a chest film made in the upright position . 
circumcision [ letter ] 
treatment of calculi in the upper ureter with extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy . sixty-six symptomatic primary stones in the upper ureter were treated using extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy ( eswl ) . all patients underwent preprocedural cystoscopy for stone manipulation and 27 of the patients had the stones dislodged proximally . the stone-free success rate for this group of dislodged stones was 93 per cent . of 39 ureteral stones treated in situ ( impacted ) , 33 patients were rendered stone-free at three months . three stones in this group failed to disintegrate and required surgical treatment . complications of eswl were minimal . eswl of upper ureteral stones is an effective noninvasive , noncontact method of treatment . successful stone manipulation increased the stone-free rate , yet impacted stones disintegrated and passed in 85 per cent of treatments . lithotripsy of small renal stones prior to migration and proximal ureteral stones early in the symptomatic course may significantly alter the incidence of distal ureteral calculi requiring hospitalization , cystoscopy or ureteroscopy . 
revascularization of traumatic thrombosis of the renal artery . renal artery thrombosis , although well recognized , remains a rare complication of blunt abdominal trauma . in an effort to resolve the current controversy concerning the appropriate therapy , we have reviewed the available literature . only those instances when the injury was due to blunt trauma and resulted in complete occlusion of the renal artery , documented by roentgenographic means , were included in this review . avulsion injuries , incomplete occlusion or branch artery injuries were also excluded . in order to be classified as a surgical success , postoperative documentation of renal function and a patent renal artery were required . only nine successfully performed vascularization procedures were identified . there were four instances of bilateral obstruction with postoperative serum creatinine levels ranging from 1.77 to 7.1 milligrams per deciliter . all required postoperative dialysis ranging from three days to three months in duration . thirty-five patients with an unilaterally obstructed renal artery underwent attempted revascularization . five patients , all with a presumed ischemic time of less than 12 hours , had a successful outcome . postoperatively , four patients demonstrated either a decrease in size or function of the injured kidney . thirteen eventually required nephrectomy . 
a surgical experience with crohn 's disease . from 427 histories of patients with crohn 's disease admitted to st . michael 's hospital between 1 january 1974 and 31 march 1983 , 152 patients were studied as each had at least one operation related to the disease . the age at onset of symptoms , the interval between onset of symptoms and operation , the site of disease , operations performed , the type and frequency of repeat operations and the morbidity , mortality and follow-up period were studied . the small intestine only was involved in 55 per cent of the patients , the large intestine only in 16 per cent , and both the small and large intestine in 29 per cent . the most frequent indication for operation was obstruction ( 29 per cent ) ; the next was perianal disease ( 18 per cent ) . the most common procedure was resection of the lowest segment of the small intestine with adjacent colon ( 37 per cent ) . the second most common operation was perianal operation ( 19 per cent ) . there were three deaths ( 2 per cent mortality rate ) . one hundred and thirty patients ( 93 per cent ) have been examined within the past three years . life tables show the cumulative chance of having an operation for crohn 's disease . 
a new total substitute urinary bladder . a surgical technique for the creation of an antireflux reservoir type substitute urinary bladder using the distal part of the ileum and aimed at meeting the demands expected of its normal counterpart is presented . two male patients who underwent radical cystoprostatectomy with pelvic node dissection without urethrectomy for transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder are discussed herein . variations in the creation of the reservoirs in both patients are described and the preliminary results reported . 
enterovesical fistula . during a period of 18 months , 24 patients were identified with enterovesical fistulas . the fistulas were colovesical in 18 , ileovesical in four and rectovesical and appendicovesical in one each . fifteen of the 23 patients in whom this information was available had pneumaturia and four had fecaluria . the standard battery of diagnostic tests for enterovesical fistulas was performed . thirteen patients with colovesical fistulas had small intestinal series ; the fistula was demonstrated in only five patients . sixteen patients had an intravenous pyelogram and the fistula was demonstrated in none . cystoscopy was performed upon 15 patients and the fistula was demonstrated in one . a cystogram was performed upon ten patients and the fistula was demonstrated in four . in contrast , all patients had positive computed tomographic findings . the pathognomonic finding of air within the bladder was demonstrated in 20 of 23 patients without recent transurethral instrumentation . all 24 computed tomographic scans demonstrated an abnormally thickened segment of intestine in intimate contact with a thickened bladder wall at the site of the fistula . this was associated with a paravesical mass in 23 of the patients . two of the four patients in whom bladder air was not seen had a vesical fistula of the small intestine . all 24 fistulas were confirmed by operation ( 22 patients ) or subsequent clinical course ( two patients ) . these findings suggest that computed tomography is the most accurate diagnostic tool available for demonstrating enterovesical fistulas . computed tomography should supplant the use of other less sensitive diagnostic test currently included in the evaluation of patients with a suspected enterovesical fistula . 
skin microvascular permeability after resuscitation with ringer 's lactate solution from endotoxin shock . skin microvascular membrane permeability was assessed in anesthetized dogs after resuscitation from endotoxin shock . infusion of ringer 's lactate solution , in a volume equal to 7 per cent of the body weight , reversed hypotension produced by an intravenous injection of escherichia coli endotoxin ( 0.5 milligrams per kilogram ) . the shock group was compared with a group of dogs not given endotoxin and infused with a similar dose of ringer 's lactate solution and a with control group of dogs . prenodal lymph was collected from both hindpaws and three to four hours before ending an increase of 20 to 28 millimeters of mercury in venous pressure of the hindpaw was produced in one limb by tightening a tourniquet . this maneuver produced an increase in lymph flow associated with an increase in lymph protein flux that was similar in all three groups . the wet to dry tissue weight ratio of skin samples did not increase in the endotoxin group . skin microvascular membrane permeability did not increase . the safety factors that helped to prevent edema after infusion of ringer 's lactate solution included an increase in lymph flow and sieving by the intact microvascular membrane which diluted the interstitial protein concentration . 
reoperations upon the biliary duct system for benign disorders are still indicated . during the last 12 years , we performed 78 reoperations upon the biliary tract for benign disorders . not included were early complications after the initial operation or endoscopic manipulation . the indications for reoperations were obstructive jaundice , recurrent colic and asymptomatic biliary fistula in 57 , 18 and three patients , respectively . endoscopic retrograde cholangiography was found to be the preoperative diagnostic method of choice . intraoperative examination demonstrated cholangiolithiasis in 48 patients ( five patients with stenosis ) , stenosis of the bile duct in eight , sump syndrome after choledochoduodenostomy in six and cholangitis without any further pathology in three . in three patients , the revision was negative . several reinterventions were carried out : exploration of the bile ducts ( 12 per cent with papillotomy ) , removal of a biliodigestive anastomosis and a biliary enteric anastomosis in 52 , 12 and 14 patients , respectively . the postoperative cholangiogram showed residual stones in 12 patients . two-thirds of the stones disappeared spontaneously and one-third were removed endoscopically . there were local complications in 12 of the patients . the mortality rate was 6.4 per cent . all of these patients were more than 70 years old and were considered at high risk . in spite of endoscopic retrograde cholangiography , the number of operative reinterventions upon the biliary duct system has hardly declined over the last few years . this is partly due to new specific complications in connection with endoscopic retrograde endoscopy ( perforation , hemorrhage or pancreatitis ) . 
carcinoma related to choledochal cysts with internal drainage operations . carcinoma arising in a choledochal cyst retained after enteric drainage is discussed in comparison with primary carcinoma . in our series , carcinoma developed in eight of 82 patients with choledochal cyst and three of the eight had secondary carcinoma occurring several years after enteric drainage . forty-two similar instances and 235 instances of primary carcinoma have been reported in japan . the mean age at detection of carcinoma in enteric drainage was 35 years old , 15 years less than that of primary carcinoma . the mean interval between drainage and detection of carcinoma was ten years . carcinoma mainly arose from the retained cyst in drainage , while primary carcinoma developed in either the cyst or gallbladder . the prognosis was very poor . almost all patients undergoing enteric drainage died soon after the detection of carcinoma . this is possibly due to the delay in diagnosis . pancreatic juice can easily regurgitate into the choledochus through an anomalous junction of the pancreatobiliary ductal system , and enteric drainage causes pancreatic juice in the cyst to become activated due to the influx of intestinal juice . therefore , inflammatory changes of the cyst are accelerated and probably result in carcinoma . early excision of the choledocus should be recommended in patients with choledochal cyst retained after enteric drainage . 
four new hepatectomy procedures for resection of the right hepatic vein and preservation of the inferior right hepatic vein . among the accessory hepatic veins , the thickest one is the irhv and is a significant vessel in 20 to 24 per cent of the patients . in these patients , if the right hepatic vein is totally resected , the right posteroinferior area can be preserved with the irhv . four types of hepatectomies n which the irhv was preserved were proposed and three of the four procedures were performed upon five patients . in these five operations , the hepatectomies were successfully performed and blood losses were from 1 , 020 to 3 , 200 milliliters . these operative procedures , which have not been described before , could widen the indication of hepatectomy in patients with reduced liver function and tumor involving the right hepatic vein . in order to perform these operative procedures successfully , intraoperative sonography is indispensable . 
the use of the myouterine flap in closure of defects of the bladder . a new surgical technique to close bladder defects using well vascularized myouterine flap is described . the flap serves as a temporary scaffold while the bladder is being bridged by natural bladder regeneration . the advantage of this flap is that it is not a free flap , being well vascularized through its pedicle , enhancing optimal bladder regeneration . this technique may be a useful surgical alternative for repair of large bladder defects . 
easier and safer cystopericystectomy using the pringle maneuver . 
a simple technique for constructing a loop enterostomy which allows immediate placement of an ostomy appliance . a technique for constructing a loop enterostomy using a red robinson catheter as a stabilizing " rod " is described . the catheter is placed subcutaneously and exits through skin stab wounds placed far enough from the stoma to allow immediate placement of a standard ostomy appliance . by eliminating the skin level rod common to most descriptions of loop enterostomy construction techniques , difficulty with good fixation of skin appliances is eliminated . 
hartmann 's procedure for multiple intestinal resections in infants . 
balloon dilation facilitates stapling in esophagojejunostomy . a technique for facilitating stapled anastomosis in end to end esophagojejunostomy is described . the jejunal loop and the esophagus are dilated with a sengstaken-blakemore tube and a foley catheter respectively prior to the introduction of the stapling gun . balloon dilation simplifies the insertion and removal of the gun . the procedure is atraumatic and allows the use of larger size stapling cartridges . 
balloon tamponade for transfixing lesions of the liver . 
iridocyclitis masquerade syndrome [ clinical conference ] a 52-year-old man presented with blurred vision and a red , painful eye . there was a marked anterior uveitis associated with a solid white lesion on the iris . the differential diagnosis and appropriate diagnostic workup are discussed . the diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the lung with metastasis to the iris was made . 
lack of effect of parathyroidectomy or calcium channel blockade on serum gastrin concentration and gastric acid secretion in a patient with hyperparathyroidism and zollinger-ellison syndrome . management of patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type i ( wermer 's syndrome ) who have concurrent hypercalcemia and hypergastrinemia is controversial . the usual therapeutic approach has been to perform parathyroidectomy first before surgery for ulcer disease in an effort to decrease serum calcium concentration and presumably remove one of the stimuli for both gastrin and gastric acid secretion . we present the history of a 48-year-old man with primary hyperparathyroidism and zollinger-ellison syndrome who underwent acid secretory studies and secretin stimulation tests before and after parathyroidectomy . we also studied the effect of calcium channel blockade on gastrin and gastric acid secretion , since calcium influx into endocrine cells , such as the gastrinoma cell , is thought to be critical in hormone secretion . although parathyroidectomy reduced serum calcium and parathormone levels to normal , basal serum gastrin concentration and basal acid output remained unchanged . the peak rise in serum gastrin concentration after secretin injection was less after parathyroidectomy than before parathyroidectomy but was still abnormal . during administration of verapamil , a calcium channel antagonist , no change was seen in the serum gastrin concentration , secretin test response , or acid secretion . basal acid output was 45.4 mmol / hr before parathyroidectomy or verapamil and 54.0 and 50.4 mmol / hr after parathyroidectomy or verapamil , respectively . in contrast , a small but significant decrease ( p less than 0.05 ) in serum parathormone concentration occurred during treatment with verapamil , an observation that to the best of our knowledge has not been previously reported in humans . 
ectopic parathyroid adenoma of the lateral triangle of the neck : report of two cases . ectopically placed parathyroid adenomas have been described in many locations . this article documents two patients in whom the adenoma was present in the lateral triangle of the neck , outside of the carotid sheath , and lateral to the jugular vein . 
academic surgery [ letter ] 
cowden 's disease [ letter ] 
prophylactic partial mastectomy [ letter ] 
colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis for familial adenomatous polyposis : the risk of rectal cancer . one hundred thirty-three patients with familial adenomatous polyposis undergoing colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis have been reviewed for the occurrence of cancer in the rectal stump . ten patients developed rectal cancer ( actuarial survivorship rate of 88 % for those patients free of rectal cancer at 20 years ) . potential risk factors for the development of rectal cancer , including age at colectomy , previous colon cancer , number of rectal polyps , and length of the rectal stump , were analyzed and no significant differences were found . a policy of total colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis at 12 to 15 cm with conscientious lifelong follow-up thereafter is advocated for persons affected by familial adenomatous polyposis . 
gastric emptying and postprandial symptoms after billroth ii resection . gastric emptying was studied in 18 symptomatic and 16 asymptomatic patients after billroth ii ( bii ) resection ( without vagotomy ) and the possible relationships between emptying and postprandial symptoms in these patients were assessed . the bii patients were compared with 20 nonoperated patients who had duodenal ulcer disease and 16 healthy subjects . gastric emptying of two test meals ( a semisolid porridge meal and a solid pancake meal ) was measured with a radionuclide technique . the major difference between the bii patients and control subjects and duodenal ulcer patients was an increased rate of emptying of the semisolid meal in the first 5 minutes after meal consumption . the percentage of the meal remaining in the stomach at 5 minutes after completion was significantly less in the symptomatic ( 45.3 % + / - 4.3 % ) than in the asymptomatic bii patients ( 79.4 % + / - 2.6 % ) . a positive correlation was demonstrated between the initial emptying rate of semisolids and the intensity of postprandial nausea ( p less than 0.01 ) , vomiting ( p less than 0.05 ) , and vasomotor symptoms ( p less than 0.001 ) . the duration of the lag phase for solid and semisolid meals was shorter in bii patients than in healthy subjects but was as short in nonoperated duodenal ulcer patients . the duration of the lag phase for solid food in the bii patients correlated positively with the score for postprandial epigastric pain ( p less than 0.001 ) . the rate of emptying of the solid meal was lower in symptomatic bii patients ( 28.1 % + / - 3.6 % per hour ) than in asymptomatic patients ( 47.8 % + / - 7.2 % per hour ) and correlated with the severity of postprandial fullness and nausea . the emptying of the solid meal was inversely related to the initial emptying rate of the semisolid meal ( p less than 0.05 ) . therefore , the results of this study support the assumption that many of the postprandial symptoms occurring after bii resection reflect alterations in gastric emptying . some of the emptying abnormalities present after bii resection may be related to duodenal ulcer disease rather than to the surgical procedure . 
extremity blood flow in man : comparison between strain-gauge and capacitance plethysmography . metabolic studies with substrate limb flux determinations require an accurate and simple method for measuring blood flow through the extremity . two common , noninvasive methods used in recent studies are strain-gauge and capacitance venous occlusion plethysmography . the values obtained for forearm blood flow by these two methods are highly correlated in normal resting and seriously ill patients . the use of a fixed percentage of cardiac output as a measure of extremity flow was not indicative of the measured flow by either capacitance or strain-gauge plethysmography . capacitance and strain-gauge plethysmography are comparable , noninvasive indicators of change in extremity blood flow in humans . 
serum and urinary silver levels in thermal injury patients . although silver sulfadiazine has been used extensively as an effective topical antimicrobial agent in thermal injury patients , little is known about the cutaneous absorption of the silver moiety in these patients . therefore , we longitudinally evaluated both serum silver concentration and 24-hour urinary excretion of silver in 23 patients with second- and third-degree thermal burns . mean serum silver concentrations were modestly elevated throughout the patients ' hospital course . urinary excretion of silver was markedly elevated , especially in those patients with more severe burns . indeed , in patients who had burns covering more than 60 % of the total body surface area mean peak silver excretion was 1100 micrograms / 24 hr ( normal , less than 1 micrograms / 24 hr ) . thus , silver ion is absorbed across the burn wound in thermal injury patients treated with silver sulfadiazine . the 24-hour urinary excretion of silver appears to be a very sensitive indicator of cutaneous absorption in these patients . possible implications of this cutaneous silver absorption warrant further evaluation . 
the immediate effect of burn wound excision on pulmonary function in sheep : the role of prostanoids , oxygen radicals , and chemoattractants . pulmonary dysfunction is a well-recognized complication of burn wound excision . it remains unclear whether this is caused by bacteria or inflammatory mediators released during excision of the wound . we produced a 15 % full-thickness burn in 18 sheep , and between days 5 and 7 completely excised the wound under general anesthesia . pulmonary parameters of static and dynamic lung compliance ( cstat and cdyn ) , pao2 / fio2 , and pulmonary artery pressure ( ppa ) were measured , as well as burn lymph , venous and aortic thromboxane b2 ( txb2 ) , chemotactic index ( chemotaxis / chemikinesis ) , and oxygen radical activity reflected in the level of lipid peroxidation in lung tissue . we noted a transient increase in burn lymph and venous txb2 during excision , increasing from a preburn value of 200 and 220 + / - 50 pg / ml to 950 + / - 210 and 980 + / - 280 pg / ml , respectively . in 13 of 18 sheep , chemotactic activity and lung tissue lipid peroxidation , measured as malondialdehyde ( mda ) content , were not increased . in this group only a very transient decrease in cdyn , pao2 / fio2 , and a 3 mm hg increase in mean ppa was seen with excision , with these parameters returning rapidly to baseline . five of the 13 sheep had wound biopsy specimens that were greater than 10 ( 6 ) organisms / gm tissue . in the remaining five sheep , plasma chemotactic index was also significantly increased with excision , as was lung mda content , while decreases in cdyn , cstat , and pao2 / fio2 and an increase in ppa were more protracted . three of these five sheep had wound biopsy specimens greater than 10 ( 6 ) organisms / gm . we conclude that a release of thromboxane occurs during excision , which corresponds in time to transient lung dysfunction . if there is also a release of chemotactic factors , a more protracted pulmonary response occurs with evidence of o2 radical-induced lung changes . 
relationship between transcutaneous oxygen tension , ankle blood pressure , and clinical outcome of vascular surgery in diabetic and nondiabetic patients . we measured ankle systolic blood pressure ( abp ) and limb transcutaneous oxygen tension ( tcpo2 ) before and after 53 vascular procedures performed to relieve limb-threatening ischemia . we compared changes in abp and tcpo2 and also compared these measurements of limb hemodynamics with the clinical outcome of the vascular procedures . for the procedures performed on patients without diabetes , both abp and tcpo2 registered similar changes after surgery . furthermore , those nondiabetic patients who had a postoperative abp greater than 75 mm hg or tcpo2 greater than 20 mm hg showed resolution of the clinical symptoms within 60 days after surgery . all patients falling below these levels underwent a subsequent limb amputation . the results differed somewhat for procedures performed on patients with diabetes . first , a number of diabetic patients showed high abp in conjunction with low tcpo2 . we attribute these observations to the high incidence in diabetic patients of calcific medial stenosis leading to artificially elevated abp measurements . second , the clinical outcome among diabetic patients was uncorrelated with the postoperative abp and was poorly correlated with postoperative tcpo2 . those diabetic patients with postoperative tcpo2 below 20 mm hg showed unfavorable clinical outcomes , but many patients with postoperative tcpo2 greater than 20 mm hg and postoperative abp greater than 75 mm hg also showed unfavorable clinical outcome ( slow healing of ulcers , persistence of rest pain , and / or an amputation on the limb ) . these data suggest that among our patients with diabetes , simple relief of limb ischemia was not sufficient to result in a trouble-free clinical course . we conclude that tcpo2 is a useful replacement or adjunct to abp measurements for evaluating the hemodynamic outcome of vascular surgery . our results also suggest that it is extremely important to evaluate the outcome of such surgeries separately in patients with and without diabetes . 
verapamil enhances antitumor activity without increasing myeloid toxicity . the effectiveness of chemotherapy is limited by drugs ' resistance and toxicity to normal host cells . verapamil increases the cytotoxicity of the vinca alkaloids and doxorubicin hydrochloride ( adriamycin ) in tissue culture . in this experiment the effect of verapamil ( ver ) on the cytotoxicity of vincristine sulfate ( vcr ) and 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) was studied with the use of an intravenous lung colonization model . after receiving 5 x 10 ( 4 ) b16 f10 cells intravenously , mice were randomized into six groups and treated with intraperitoneal injections of saline solution , ver , vcr , vcr plus ver , 5-fu , or 5-fu plus ver . in the first experiment , mice were killed on day 22 and lung colonies counted . in subsequent experiments , animals were monitored until death . the addition of ver to vcr significantly decreased pulmonary tumor formation ( 14 versus 47 colonies ; p = 0.05 ) . this was associated with an increase in mean survival from 40.4 to 53.7 days ( p = 0.05 ) . although the addition of ver to 5-fu also decreased pulmonary tumor colony formation ( 26 versus 73 colonies ; p = 0.001 ) , there was no significant prolongation of survival with this treatment . a quantitative clonal culture of granulocyte-macrophage progenitor cells ( gm-cfc ) was used to assess the effect of ver on bone marrow toxicity . the addition of 5 mumol ver to 5-fu ( 5 x 10 ( -3 ) to 5 x 10 ( -7 ) mol / l ) or vcr ( 5 x 10 ( -5 ) to 5 x 10 ( -9 ) mol / l ) did not significantly reduce gm-cfc growth compared with treatment with either drug alone . in vivo marrow toxicity assessed 18 hours after a single drug injection was also not increased by the addition of ver to vcr or 5-fu . in this model , ver enhances the oncolytic effect of both vcr and 5-fu without a concomitant increase in toxicity to normal host marrow progenitor cells . 
splanchnic and total body oxygen consumption differences in septic and injured patients . the splanchnic and total body oxygen exchange and flow dynamics for injured patients ( n = 7 ) and patients with sepsis and stable vital signs ( n = 12 ) were studied . all patients were judged to be in the hyperdynamic phase of the stress response . in both patient groups 27 % to 28 % of the cardiac index was directed to the splanchnic circulation . however , in sepsis the splanchnic region consumed a significantly larger fraction ( p less than 0.05 ) of the total body oxygen ( 43.8 % ) compared with that consumed in injury ( 30.2 % ) . after injury , the regional splanchnic flow and oxygen consumption appeared to be well matched whereas in sepsis , a disproportionately higher oxygen consumption is found , which must be supplied by increasing blood oxygen extraction . this regional hypermetabolism of the splanchnic area probably results from the increased metabolic demand imposed by the various synthetic processes of this region . in addition , it is proposed that excessive discrepancy between splanchnic flow and oxygen demand may precipitate regional ischemia . 
effects of halothane , enflurane , and nitrous oxide on colon motility . previous work from this laboratory has demonstrated that the colon , particularly the left colon , is the major site of persistent postoperative ileus after both minimal and more extensive abdominal operations . inhalation anesthetics have been implicated in the past as a possible cause of altered postoperative bowel function , but direct evidence of such a role in postoperative ileus is lacking . in this investigation , the effects of three inhalation anesthetic agents , halothane , enflurane , and nitrous oxide , on contractile function of the right and left colon were investigated in monkeys . enflurane and halothane administration caused cessation of contractions in both the left and right colon ; suppression of motor activity continued throughout the period of anesthetic administration . recovery of normal contractile function occurred relatively promptly after cessation of anesthesia with these drugs . return of normal contractions was more prompt in the right than in the left colon . administration of nitrous oxide was not associated with significant suppression of contractile function of either the the right or left colon . none of the three agents studied appear to have any role in typical postoperative ileus . 
hybrid bioartificial liver in hepatic failure : preliminary clinical report . a hybrid bioartificial liver has been developed on the principle of hemodialysis against a suspension of functioning hepatocytes . the new chimeric device of synthetics and living parts was used successfully to treat a patient in hepatic failure due to an inoperable bile duct carcinoma that involved the bifurcation of the common duct . 
clinical comparison of bladder contractility parameters calculated from isometric contractions and pressure-flow studies . parameters describing the contractility of the urinary bladder can be calculated from both isometric contractions and pressure-flow studies . the first method has the advantage of making very little demand either on the patient or on the urodynamicist , and the disadvantage of yielding a parameter that is not clearly related to muscle physiology . the second method demands more from both patient and experimenter but yields straightforward parameters . for a group of 86 patients with mixed pathologic findings , a correlation between the two types of parameters was demonstrated , showing that both methods test , at least partly , the same mechanism . 
unstable bladder : urodynamic diagnosis and observations in evaluating urinary incontinence in the female . unstable bladder in the female has been the subject of controversy with regard to its etiology , identification , and treatment . one hundred thirty consecutive female patients referred with incontinence were evaluated as to their symptoms and urodynamic findings . a stress cystometrogram , systematically done , was introduced and observations were made regarding certain findings on the urodynamic examination . these criteria were used subsequently for making a diagnosis of unstable bladder . forty per cent of these patients were found to have an unstable bladder . history of frequency and urgency correlated best with a diagnosis in 70 to 80 per cent of our cases , and the new stress cystometrogram proved to be the most sensitive urodynamic test ( 78 % ) for detecting this condition . a systematic approach such as we describe is advocated as a first step toward gaining a better understanding of this puzzling entity . 
percutaneous nephrolithotripsy in horseshoe kidney [ letter ] 
effect of eswl on canine spinal cord [ letter ] 
endoscopic transvesical ureterolithotomy [ letter ] 
endometrial carcinoma of prostate : differentiation with ectopic prostatic tissue in elderly male [ letter ] 
metastatic carcinoma to penis : when is total penectomy indicated ? we report on 7 patients with metastatic carcinoma to the penis : 3 had carcinoma of the prostate and 2 had transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder ; renal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma of the rectum were found in 1 patient each . five patients died within six months ; 2 patients are alive three and seven months following diagnosis . one of these patients underwent total penectomy for intractable penile pain . the indications and outcome of this surgical procedure are presented and discussed . 
acquired infundibular stenosis . acquired infundibular stenosis is an unusual complication resulting in pancalyceal obstruction . we have cared for 6 patients with acquired infundibular stenosis not associated with tuberculosis . all patients had urinary diversion with ileal conduits for a minimum of eleven years and documented ileal-ureteral reflux and chronic urinary tract infections . the clinical , radiographic , and pathologic characteristics of this syndrome are described and therapeutic guidelines suggested . 
epidermoid cyst of testis : a case for orchiectomy . epidermoid cyst of the testis is a benign lesion without report of metastasis . it cannot be differentiated reliably from the far more common malignant testicular mass on a clinical basis . simple excision of the cyst , even with concurrent biopsy of the apparently normal surrounding parenchyma , does not exclude the possibility of a remote scar or focus of viable tumor . the existence of a concurrent malignant lesion along with an epidermoid cyst may be more than coincidental . for such an undetected associated lesion , appropriate highly successful adjunctive therapy is delayed if excision of the epidermoid cyst alone is performed . consequently , inguinal orchiectomy should be the treatment of choice for epidermoid cyst of the testis with the subsequent burden of proof placed on the pathologist to exclude associated lesions that may alter therapy . 
use of nd : yag laser in treatment of bladder cancer . a total of 53 patients were treated with neodymium : yttrium-aluminum garnet ( nd : yag ) laser and followed up for two years . three patients had carcinoma in situ ( cis ) ; 4 had ta lesions ; and 28 had tinxmo , 8 had t2nxmo , and 10 had t3nxmo lesions . the patients with cis received a combination of nd : yag laser and intravesical bacillus calmette guerin ( bcg ) instillation . the remainder of the patients received no supplementary chemotherapy . no tumor recurrence was noted in those with ta lesions . tumor recurred in 18 per cent of patients with t1 lesions , and 33 per cent of those with t2 lesions ; 80 per cent of patients with t3 lesions had resistant or residual tumors . in patients with cis , there was no tumor recurrence . nd : yag laser is effective in ta , t1 , and t2 bladder cancers , with low recurrence rate and minimal complications . in very select , high-risk patients with small lesions , and in those who refuse cystectomy , there may be a place for laser therapy for either palliation or definitive treatment of t3 invasive tumors of the bladder . 
mullerian duct cysts : conservative management . three cases of the unusual entity , mullerian duct cyst , are presented . each was managed differently , demonstrating that with appropriate patient selection either aspiration alone , aspiration and instillation of a sclerosing agent , or transurethral resection of bladder base to establish communication and cyst drainage are successful . 
doubling time and annual doubling rate of human prostatic cancer . the doubling time ( dt ) of human prostatic cancer is calculated for the first time ; its various parameters and the relative importance of each are reviewed . a crude volume-doubling time ( dtcv ) , a theoretical doubling of the number of cells ( dtt ) , and an annual doubling rate ( adr ) , are defined and calculated for each of 12 patients who had undergone needling of the prostate for diagnostic purposes and in whom tumor cells were implanted in the track of the biopsy needle and had grown into a subcutaneous perineal nodule . the harmonic average dtcv was six days and dtt eight days , and the average adr was 45 doublings per year . from the study of the calculated dts and adrs , it became obvious that the 12 patients fell into three distinct groups : group i = slow tumor growth rate , an average adr of 9 doublings per year , and a harmonic average dtt of forty days ; group ii = medium tumor growth rate , an average adr of 35 doublings / year , and a harmonic average dtt of ten days ; and group iii = rapid tumor growth rate , an average adr of 100 doublings / year , and a harmonic average dtt of four days . 
unilateral torsion of spermatic cord in men : effect on leydig cell . in our previous studies , we reported that short-term unilateral spermatic cord torsion had no adverse effect on the germ cells and the sertoli cell in the contralateral testis of men . as an extension of our earlier investigations on the testicular pathophysiology in humans after unilateral spermatic cord torsion , the present study was undertaken to assess the leydig cell function employing both fine structural and morphometric analysis in patients with short-term spermatic cord torsion . bilateral testicular biopsy samples obtained from 4 men ( 15-19 years ) with short-term unilateral torsion of the spermatic cord and from a control group of 6 men ( 15-40 years ) were used in the present investigation . no appreciable difference in the leydig morphology was noted between the biopsy samples from control and the contralateral testes . this was substantiated by morphometric analysis . the present study clearly indicates that patients with unilateral torsion of the spermatic cord may not essentially have bilateral testicular abnormalities , as suggested by the previous investigators . this report , thus lends further support to our earlier contention that alteration in microcirculation is quite likely the earliest and possibly the most significant contributor to the contralateral testicular damage in man after ipsilateral spermatic cord torsion . 
myoglobinuria from child abuse . a child with myoglobinuria following rhabdomyolysis from child abuse is described . the importance of early recognition and treatment of this condition is emphasized . 
cystic dysplasia of testis . a rare developmental disorder , cystic dysplasia of the testis , encountered in a newborn infant , is described . the relationship to renal dysplasia and the recent literature are reviewed . 
clinical evaluation of flutamide and estramustine as initial treatment of metastatic carcinoma of prostate . the efficacy and side effects of flutamide were compared with estramustine in patients with advanced prostatic carcinoma . thirty patients with metastatic cancers but with no serious cardiovascular ( cv ) conditions were randomly assigned to receive treatment either with flutamide ( 250 mg x 3 ) or with estramustine ( 280 mg x 2 ) . clinical examination , bone scan , laboratory measurements , including coagulation studies were performed prior to randomization , every three months during year one , and at six-month intervals thereafter . the two groups were comparable with respect to age and tumor characteristics . however , more patients presented with skeletal pain among those later treated with flutamide . during an observation period of between one and two and one-half years , flutamide was discontinued in 1 case ( 7 % ) because of icterus , and estramustine in 3 cases ( 20 % ) because of cv complications . of the remaining 14 flutamide-treated patients , 13 responded initially . eleven of them relapsed , and 5 died of cancer . in the corresponding group of 12 estramustine-treated patients , there were 11 primary responders . of these , only 2 relapsed and died as did the only nonresponder . the difference between the two groups with regard to relapse is significant ( p less than 0.01 ) , but not with regard to mortality . all estramustine-treated patients lost their libido , whereas only 20 per cent of the patients treated with flutamide did so . in the present limited material there was an initial favorable response to flutamide without signs of cv complications and with maintained libido in most cases . however , due to significantly increased risk for relapse compared with estramustine , flutamide cannot be recommended as single therapy except in cases where estrogens are contraindicated or when interference with libido and potency is unacceptable . 
segmental hemorrhagic infarct of testicle . the seventh case of spontaneous hemorrhagic infarction of the testis is reported . several mechanisms , including the likelihood that there are segmental watershed areas in some males , are explored as possible explanations for this rare finding . 
vesical endometriosis : medical or surgical treatment . a case report of endometriosis of the bladder is presented , with special reference to treatment options . recent experience with this lesion illustrates the dilemma facing the physician who must determine a course of treatment . it seems that removal of the bladder lesion by segmental cystectomy is the preferred treatment . 
corynebacterium group d2 pyelonephritis . we believe this represents the first known case of group d2 pyelonephritis in a seventy-two-year-old white man . previous to this report d2 organisms have been associated only with alkaline-encrusted cystitis and struvite stones in urology . 
leiomyosarcoma of kidney . the case of a seventy-one-year-old woman with leiomyosarcoma of the kidney capsule is presented . despite lack of invasion into surrounding tissues and few mitoses , the tumor recurred thirteen months after nephrectomy . a full subjective response and an almost complete objective regression lasting eight months were achieved using a short course of combination chemotherapy . the literature on leiomyosarcoma of the kidney is reviewed . 
prostatic invasion of rectal carcinoma : does transurethral surgery alter prognosis ? two cases of colorectal carcinoma invading the prostate are presented . each patient initially had an abdominoperineal resection for colorectal carcinoma followed by a transurethral resection of the prostate ( turp ) for benign prostatic disease . in both patients colonic carcinoma developed subsequently in their prostatic fossae . pathogenesis of late tumor invasion into the prostate is reviewed and consideration given to a more conservative surgical approach . 
benign prostatic epithelial polyp of urethra . a case report of polypoid tumor of the prostatic urethra is presented . the tumor was resected transurethrally , and histologic examination revealed a papillary tumor containing prostatic glandular structure . 
transrectal biopsy under local anesthesia . 
calyceal puncture for nephrolithotomy using unidimensional x-ray unit . 
bladder drainage during ureteroscopy : a new and effective technique . 
case pro replaced-url pseudotumor of right kidney due to hepatic hemangioma . 
idiopathic renal arteriovenous fistula . spontaneous closure . a large and symptomatic idiopathic renal arteriovenous ( av ) fistula closed over a two-year period of clinicoradiologic observation . this feature of idiopathic renal av fistulas has not been reported previously , to our knowledge . if the presenting symptoms permit nonintervention , not only the trauma-related but also the idiopathic renal av fistula can be conservatively managed and may heal spontaneously . 
primary adenocarcinoma of urinary bladder . clinicopathologic study of 16 cases . the clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical features of 16 pure adenocarcinomas primary in the urinary bladder were reviewed . only 3 patients were found to have disease confined to the urinary bladder . of 13 cases with follow-up only 3 are free of disease . histologically , the tumors were classified as signet ring cell ( 3 ) , colloid ( 3 ) , colonic type ( 5 ) , clear cell ( 1 ) , and not otherwise specified ( nos , 4 ) . immunohistochemically , all tumors but one colloid carcinoma were immunoreactive for cytokeratin and epithelial membrane antigen , and most tumors were likewise immunoreactive for carcinoembryonic antigen . eight cases were immunoreactive for leu m1 antigen . prostate specific antigen , s-100 protein , and placental alkaline phosphatase were uniformly negative . no correlation between immunohistochemical profile and histologic type or clinical outcome was found . the utility of immunohistochemistry and other pathologic findings is reviewed . 
delayed bladder dysfunction after abdominoperineal resection : an indicator of local recurrence . it is generally not appreciated that the delayed onset of voiding dysfunction after abdominoperineal resection for rectal carcinoma may be the first sign of local pelvic recurrence . we herein present a series of 5 patients who were referred for urodynamic evaluation of voiding dysfunction beginning nine to twenty-four months after the original operative procedure . urodynamic evaluation revealed low bladder wall compliance in 4 patients , and detrusor hyperreflexia in 1 patient . computerized tomography scans confirmed the local tumor recurrence in all cases . the delayed onset of voiding complaints after abdominoperineal resection should prompt a high index of suspicion that a local tumor recurrence may be present . 
sudden death prediction by programmed electrical stimulation following myocardial infarction . 
the syndrome of paroxysmal positional vertigo . a review . 
smoking habits among multiphasic examinees , 1979 to 1984. 
advances in the management of cardiac arrest [ clinical conference ] 
new dimensions for the art of medicine [ editorial ] 
iron depletion , deficiency and overload [ editorial ] 
bentham in a box--technology assessment and the artificial heart [ editorial ] 
magnetic resonance imaging of cysticercosis . 
treatment of cranial osteomyelitis from disseminated coccidioidomycosis . 
diagnosis of organophosphate poisoning [ letter ] 
scuba diver 's thigh [ letter ] 
more on bht toxicity [ letter ] 
treatment for impotence [ letter ] 
preventable complications of diabetes mellitus . 
quality of care for psychotropic drug use in internal medicine group practices . 
peripheral arterial disease--natural outcome . three hundred and twelve patients with peripheral arterial disease were followed up for 8 3 / 4 years or more ( maximum 11 3 / 4 years ) to assess the natural history of the disease and factors determining its outcome . of the 312 patients , 188 ( 69 % ) died during the follow-up , 68 % of the deaths having cardiovascular causes . the 10-year relative cumulative survival rate was 0.61 for males and 0.48 for females . the role of smoking as a risk factor could not be analysed without bias . in addition to known risk factors diabetes mellitus , cerebrovascular disease and coronary heart disease , the degree of peripheral arterial disease itself also proved to be a risk factor among men . the expected life lost for men with intermittent claudication was 20 % , but 44.3 % for men with advanced lower limb ischaemia ( p less than 0.01 ) . this difference could not be explained by the well-known association of advanced ischaemia and diabetes mellitus . the present results therefore suggest that the state of advanced ischaemia indicates larger involvement of the whole of the arterial tree and predicts fatal cardiovascular events among these patients . 
serum amyloid a protein in acute myocardial infarction . tissue injury including myocardial infarction leads to a variety of changes in plasma proteins commonly referred to as " the acute phase response " . in this report the concentrations of serum amyloid a protein ( saa ) were measured serially in 6 patients with myocardial infarction and 4 with angina . saa was found to be increased in all patients with infarction , but in no patients with angina . significantly increased saa levels were detected 12 hours after the peak level of creatine kinase , and the concentrations of saa seemed to correlate to the amount of damaged tissue . the saa-response was both faster and more extensive than the response of c-reactive protein ( crp ) , but the correlation between saa and crp was very good . 
peroral glucose tolerance test . relation to skeletal muscle electrolytes . seventy patients on long-term diuretic therapy for arterial hypertension and / or congestive heart failure were investigated with regard to skeletal muscle electrolytes and the results of a peroral glucose tolerance test . a significant correlation was observed between the muscle content of potassium and the ability to handle a glucose load . thirty patients underwent a second set of samples six months after the first one , 23 of whom had a reduction of their muscle potassium content relative to the first biopsy . they simultaneously demonstrated a significant impairment of glucose tolerance . 
prevalence of hyperglycaemia and undiagnosed diabetes mellitus in patients with acute myocardial infarction . the prevalence of hyperglycaemia and undiagnosed diabetes mellitus was assessed in 214 consecutive patients admitted to the coronary care units with acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) . on admission , 16 patients ( 7.5 % ) had known diabetes , and 19 patients , not previously known to be diabetic , had blood glucose concentrations of greater than or equal to 9 mmol / l . fifteen patients survived for 2 months at which time a 75 g oral glucose tolerance test showed diabetes in 9 ( 60 % ) and impaired glucose tolerance in 4 ( 27 % ) . ten of these 13 patients ( 77 % ) with abnormal glucose tolerance had elevated glycosylated haemoglobin ( hba1c ) on admission , indicating pre-existing glucose intolerance or diabetes . the prevalence of undiagnosed diabetes was 4.5 % ( 9 / 198 ) . however , we may have overlooked undiagnosed diabetes in a small number of patients on admission , since only a random blood glucose less than 8 mmol / l rules out diabetes , who criteria . elevated blood glucose in patients with ami is more likely to reflect a stationary pre-existing abnormal glucose tolerance than a temporary stress-induced phenomenon . 
alcohol intemperance and social disability as risk factors for different causes of death . at a follow-up 7-10 years after a health screening of 50-year-old men in uppsala , 101 of the 2322 participants and 51 of the 446 non-participants had died . the incidence was thus almost three times as high among non-participants as among participants . registration at the temperance board and / or the bureau of social services was 2-3 times more common among the deceased subjects than among the living irrespective of participation in the health screening . a multiple logistic analysis revealed that non-participation and both types of registration were associated with an increased risk of death . for death from neoplasm only registration at the bureau of social services , and not that at the temperance board , was a risk factor . for ischaemic heart disease ( ihd ) , on the other hand , registration at the temperance board was the strongest risk factor , the other type of registration being secondary , and non-participation in the screening was a non-significant risk factor . the importance of alcohol intemperance as a risk factor for ihd was reflected in the fact that every second subject dying a sudden death ( classified as ihd death ) was registered at the temperance board . these results indicate that alcohol intemperance entails an increased risk of developing fatal complications to ihd , and social disability may carry with it a risk of both neoplasm and , to a lesser extent , death from ihd . 
long-term survival in giant cell arteritis including temporal arteritis and polymyalgia rheumatica . a follow-up study of 90 patients treated with corticosteroids . ninety patients with giant cell arteritis ( gca ) were followed for 9-16 years after diagnosis . corticosteroids were given to all but one patient . forty-two patients died during the observation period ( 27 women and 15 men ) . the survival was compared with that in the general population and found not to be reduced among the gca patients . in fact , we found a lower mortality than expected after five years from diagnosis ( p less than 0.05 ) . we did not see any increase in deaths due to vascular or malignant diseases in our patients . 
hla antigens in a family with behcet 's syndrome . a family is described in which 3 of 12 members suffered from behcet 's syndrome . four members , including the three patients with behcet 's syndrome suffered from recurrent aphthous stomatitis . these four family members possessed the hla-haplotype hla a2 , b15 , cw3 , dr4 . however , one relative had inherited the same hla-haplotype without showing any symptoms of the disease . genetic influence from the actual hla-haplotype may interact in manifestation of the syndrome . 
ulceration and necrosis of the tongue due to giant cell arteritis . a case is reported of giant cell arteritis in a 74-year-old woman , complicated by ulceration and necrosis of the tongue . during steroid treatment recovery was observed . 
defective monocyte function in legionnaires ' disease complicating hairy cell leukaemia . we describe a case of legionnaires ' disease in a 64-year-old man , in which hairy cell leukaemia was diagnosed after the onset of the infection . immunological studies revealed a complete suppression of blood monocyte chemotactic and oxidative burst activities . we suggest that in hairy cell leukaemia both monocytopenia and defective functions of monocytes underlie the increased susceptibility to intracellular infections including legionnaires ' disease . 
a neonatal program for sickle cell anemia . 
who provides adolescent care ? [ editorial ] 
m-plasty for large cheek defects . 
fat embolism : a clinical diagnosis . fat embolism causes a distinctive clinical syndrome usually seen in trauma victims with long bone fractures . clinical findings include hyperthermia , respiratory distress , petechiae and retinal fat emboli . neurologic changes include decreased sensorium , decerebrate posturing and seizure activity . chest radiographs commonly demonstrate bilateral fluffy infiltrates . laboratory abnormalities include hypoxemia , respiratory alkalosis , anemia and hypocalcemia . treatment consists of general supportive care with vigorous pulmonary therapy . most patients have a good recovery . 
children of alcoholics . parental alcoholism affects 27 million children , but few of these children receive supportive care . the most consistent predictor of alcoholism is alcoholism in a biologic parent . a child 's self-concept is derived largely from experiences at home and identification with the parents . family physicians are in a unique position to recognize parental alcoholism , provide empathic concern for the children and direct them to supportive programs . 
burns in the elderly . the records of 327 burn patients over age 65 show that flame burns were the most common causative agent and that more than 70 percent of all burns occurred in the home . despite improved treatment , mortality from burns remains unacceptably high among the elderly . future efforts must be directed toward the prevention of these injuries , especially those sustained in the home . 
pyoderma gangrenosum . pyoderma gangrenosum is a serious skin disorder . about half of the cases are associated with systemic diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease or arthritis . many management regimens have been recommended , but treatment must be individualized and must include concern for the physical and psychologic needs of the patient . this particularly stressful and uncertain lesion is a challenge to the physician . 
pseudotumor cerebri . pseudotumor cerebri is characterized by increased intracranial pressure and papilledema , with an essentially normal neurologic examination . the major complication is visual loss . many patients will have spontaneous remissions . the main method of following patients with pseudotumor cerebri is repeated visual field measurements . several modes of treatment have been described , but their value is unclear . 
borderline personality disorder . the lives of patients with borderline personality disorder are characterized by turmoil , and their interpersonal relationships by conflict . as a result , these patients can be very difficult to treat . however , an accurate diagnosis and an understanding of the psychodynamics and emotional development of borderline patients can lead to improved management . 
nasopharyngeal obstruction in infectious mononucleosis . obstruction of the upper respiratory tract is an alarming and serious manifestation of infectious mononucleosis . the physician must distinguish this disease from other causes of upper airway obstruction . the presence of nasal obstruction by viscous secretions can aid in establishing the diagnosis of infectious mononucleosis . steroid therapy should be initiated as soon as respiratory obstruction is apparent and infectious mononucleosis is suspected . 
glaucoma . 
child safety seats [ letter ] 
family physicians meet the challenge of aids [ editorial ] 
asymptomatic telephone ecg transmissions as an outpatient surveillance system of ventricular arrhythmias : relationship to quantitative ambulatory ecg recordings . although ambulatory ecg recordings provide quantitative information in the follow-up of patients with ventricular arrhythmias , they are performed infrequently , potentially missing serious arrhythmias in the unmonitored periods . telephone ecg systems offer " real-time " ecg information , theoretically functioning as an arrhythmia surveillance system . thus we incorporated frequent telephone ecg transmissions in two antiarrhythmic drug protocols . the first investigation was designed to show the relationship of telephone and ambulatory ecgs in patients with frequent ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) . the second protocol selected patients with " nonlife-threatening " frequent premature ventricular complexes ( pvcs ) in whom a second placebo period was instituted to simulate the clinical situation of asymptomatic arrhythmia increase . in both drug trials there was a strong linear relationship between the log-transformed pvc counts of telephone ecg and concomitant pvc , couplet , and vt frequencies on ambulatory ecg . in the vt population , greater than or equal to 1 pvc on telephone ecg reflected the presence of vt on ambulatory ecg ( sensitivity 87 % ; specificity 77 % ) . in the second study , telephone ecg transmissions with pvcs on three consecutive transmissions reflected the change from less than or equal to 10 pvcs / hour to greater than or equal to 40 pvcs / hour on ambulatory ecg within 48 hours . these data support the concept that daily surveillance by means of telephone ecg provides arrhythmia information of qualitative clinical relevance . 
relationship between age , body size , gender , and blood pressure and doppler flow measurements in the aorta and pulmonary artery . previous studies have demonstrated a relationship between both age and body surface area ( bsa ) and m-mode echocardiographic measurements of left ventricular , left atrial , and aortic root dimensions and left ventricular wall thickness . we evaluated the relationships between age , bsa , gender and blood pressure , and doppler aortic and pulmonary artery ( pa ) flow velocity measurements in 97 adults , aged 21 to 78 years , without clinical evidence of cardiac disease . no significant relationship was found between gender or blood pressure and aortic or pa flow velocity measurements . aortic peak flow velocity , flow velocity integral , and average acceleration decreased with increasing age ( all p less than 0.001 ) , whereas ejection time ( corrected for heart rate ) increased , and acceleration time did not change . in contrast , there was no relationship between age and doppler pa flow velocity measurements . although there was no relationship between bsa and doppler aortic flow measurements , pa peak flow velocity and average acceleration increased , while acceleration time decreased with increasing bsa ( all p less than 0.02 ) . decreases in aortic peak flow velocity and flow velocity integral may be partly related to known increases in aortic root diameter with aging . the relationship between pa flow velocity measurements and bsa is not readily explained . 
left ventricular ejection dynamics in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and aortic stenosis : comparison with the use of doppler echocardiography . left ventricular ejection dynamics of 15 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( nine obstructive , six nonobstructive ) were compared to those in 12 age-matched normal subjects and 10 patients with valvular aortic stenosis by means of combined two-dimensional and doppler echocardiography . doppler peak flow velocities in obstructive ( hocm , 2.5 + / - 1.3 m / sec ) and nonobstructive ( hncm , 2.6 + / - 0.6 m / sec ) hypertrophic cardiomyopathy , as well as in patients with aortic stenosis ( as , 3.6 + / - 1.3 m / sec ) were significantly higher than in the normal population ( 1.0 + / - 0.2 m / sec ; p less than 0.001 for all comparisons ) , but did not differ from each other . the hocm patients had time to peak velocity ( 154 + / - 55.7 msec ) that was higher than that in both hncm ( 86 + / - 8.4 msec ) and normal groups ( 84.5 + / - 8.9 msec ; p less than 0.001 for both comparisons ) , but did not differ from those in as ( 117 + / - 52.5 msec ) . the total ejection time did not differ between hocm ( 348.2 + / - 91.1 msec ) and as ( 328.8 + / - 30.4 msec ) groups , but was prolonged in hocm compared to hncm ( 198 + / - 21.0 msec ) and normal groups ( 233 + / - 28.3 msec ; p less than 0.001 for both comparisons ) . the normal and hncm groups did not differ in time to peak or total ejection time measurements . the percent of flow velocity present in the initial third of the systolic velocity integral for hocm ( 44.5 % + / - 5.9 ) and hncm ( 49.4 % + / - 2.5 ) groups was greater than for normals ( 36.2 % + / - 5.4 ; p less than 0.05 for both comparisons ) , but hocm values did not differ from hncm values . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
ischemic myocardial dysfunction assessed by temporal fourier transform of regional myocardial wall thickening . a fourier analysis including the first 20 harmonics was performed on sonomicrometric measurements of regional myocardial wall thickness in eight conscious dogs under control conditions and at four levels of ischemia produced by a hydraulic occluder on the left circumflex coronary artery . systolic wall thickening was reduced from 26.47 + / - 6.20 % ( s.d. ) ( control ) to 22.05 + / - 5.73 % ( mild stenosis ) , 17.00 + / - 5.86 % ( moderate stenosis ) , 11.46 + / - 3.56 % ( severe stenosis ) , and 3.69 + / - 2.57 % ( 30-second occlusion ) , values significantly different from each other ( p less than 0.01 ) . the amplitude of the first harmonic decreased stepwise from 1.35 + / - 0.31 to 1.08 + / - 0.29 mm , 0.90 + / - 0.27 mm , 0.69 + / - 0.24 mm , and 0.43 + / - 0.12 mm , all significantly different from each other ( p less than 0.05 ) . these amplitude values correlated to percent systolic wall thickening ( r = 0.894 , p = 0.001 ) . a phase shift of the first harmonic from 137 + / - 11 to 139 + / - 14 degrees , 150 + / - 15 degrees ( p less than 0.05 vs control ) , 161 + / - 21 degrees ( p less than 0.01 vs control ) , and 191 + / - 21 degrees ( p less than 0.01 vs control and severe stenosis ) correlated with the increase in time from end diastole to the point of maximum wall excursion ( r = 0.662 , p less than 0.001 ) . these data indicate that the extent of ischemic regional myocardial hypokinesis can be adequately described by the amplitude of the first harmonic , and that the asynchrony of ventricular contraction and relaxation can be detected from the phase of the first harmonic . 
the effects of cytochrome c on the extent of myocardial infarction and regional function of the ischemic myocardium . the effects of cytochrome c , an electron carrier in the process of oxidative phosphorylation , on infarct size and regional left ventricular function after a coronary artery occlusion were investigated . thus , in 30 dogs , 1 minute after left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion , 99mtc-labeled albumin microspheres ( 8 mci ) were injected into the left atrium for subsequent assessment of the hypoperfused zone , that is , the area at risk of infarction . fifteen minutes after coronary artery occlusion , dogs were randomized into a control group ( n = 15 ) and a cytochrome c-treated group ( n = 15 ) . the latter immediately received cytochrome c , 2.5 mg / kg intravenously . six hours after coronary artery occlusion the dogs were sacrificed and their left ventricles were cut into 3 mm thick slices . infarct size was determined by triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining and measured by planimetry . the same slices were then submitted to autoradiography and the hypoperfused zone was then measured by planimetry . the hypoperfused zone was 22 + / - 2 % and 23 + / - 2 % of the left ventricle in the control and treated groups , respectively ( ns ) , indicating that the extent of myocardium at risk before treatment was similar . the extent of the hypoperfused zone which evolved to necrosis was 90 + / - 3 % in the control group but only 50 + / - 7 % in the treated group ( p less than 0.001 ) . myocardial salvage in the treated group was paralleled by improvement in systolic wall thickness of the ischemic segment as measured by two-dimensional echocardiography . thus , cytochrome c reduced the extent of myocardial necrosis by 44 % and improved systolic function of the ischemic myocardium . 
hemodynamic effects of bts 49465 , a new long-acting systemic vasodilator drug , in patients with severe congestive heart failure . the hemodynamic effects of bts 49465 , a new oral , direct-acting systemic vasodilator drug , were investigated in 10 patients with severe chronic congestive heart failure . one to 2 hours after the administration of 1.5 mg / kg orally , bts 49465 produced significant increases in cardiac index , stroke volume index , and stroke work index ( 26 % , 27 % , and 23 % , respectively , p less than 0.01 to 0.001 ) and marked decreases in left ventricular filling pressure ( -12.6 mm hg , 44 % ) , mean pulmonary artery pressure ( -13.2 mm hg , 31 % ) , and mean right atrial pressure ( -7.7 mm hg , 63 % ) , all p less than 0.001 , without significant changes in heart rate . these hemodynamic responses were accompanied by notable declines in systemic vascular resistance ( -28 % , p less than 0.001 ) and pulmonary arteriolar resistance ( -24 % , p less than 0.05 ) . these effects persisted throughout the 24-hour period of observation . the decline in left ventricular filling pressure in our patients ranged in magnitude from 8 to 21 mm hg , and varied linearly and directly with pretreatment values for left ventricular filling pressure ( r = 0.69 ) . the decrease in systemic vascular resistance ranged in magnitude from 3 % to 40 % and varied linearly and directly with pretreatment values for systemic vascular resistance ( r = 0.85 ) . these data indicate that bts 49465 , a new oral , direct-acting vasodilator agent , exerts balanced cardiocirculatory effects in patients with severe chronic heart failure , which may be sustained with once-daily oral administration . 
hemodynamic effects of hydralazine in infants with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure . we evaluated the acute hemodynamic responses to hydralazine during cardiac catheterization in 13 infants with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy . ages ranged from 2 to 13 months ( 6.7 + / - 4.0 months , mean + / - sd ) . each infant had congestive heart failure and angiographic evidence of markedly depressed left ventricular ejection fraction ( 0.24 + / - 0.11 ; normal = 0.58-0.78 ) with left ventricular dilation ( left ventricular end-diastolic volume = 349 + / - 125 % of normal ) . hydralazine ( 0.5 to 1.0 mg / kg administered intravenously ) acutely decreased systemic arteriolar resistance from 21.1 + / - 3.3 to 12.0 + / - 2.7 u / m2 ( p less than 0.001 ) . this 41 + / - 14 % decrease in systemic resistance was accompanied by a 45 + / - 16 % increase in cardiac index ( 3.24 + / - 0.53 to 4.71 + / - 0.99 l / min / m2 ; p less than 0.001 ) . mean arterial blood pressure declined from 70 + / - 8 to 60 + / - 11 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) . hydralazine also increased heart rate ( 122 + / - 19 to 138 + / - 18 bpm ; p less than 0.001 ) , but this increase did not account entirely for the change in cardiac index as evidenced by a rise in stroke volume index ( 26.9 + / - 4.9 to 34.5 + / - 7.5 ml / beat / m2 ; p less than 0.001 ) . pulmonary arteriolar resistance and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure fell slightly in response to hydralazine . subsequently , oral hydralazine was included in the treatment regimen of 10 infants followed for 3 to 38 months ( mean = 15 months ) . of these , eight demonstrated sustained clinical improvement . we conclude that hydralazine may be a beneficial adjunct to the management of congestive heart failure in young infants with a dilated cardiomyopathy . 
increased platelet release reaction in 50-year-old men with essential hypertension : correlation with atherogenic cholesterol fractions . beta-thromboglobulin ( btg ) is a platelet-specific release product . plasma btg was significantly increased ( p less than 0.01 ) in 50-year-old , untreated essential hypertensive men ( 1.22 + / - 0.13 nmol / l , n = 39 , mean + / - se ) compared to 50-year-old , healthy normotensive control men ( 0.82 + / - 0.07 nmol / l , n = 31 ) . plasma btg in the hypertensive group correlated significantly with the total serum cholesterol concentration ( r = 0.47 , p less than 0.01 ) and with the atherogenic cholesterol fractions low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) and very low-density lipoprotein ( vldl ) cholesterol ( r = 0.50 , p less than 0.01 ) . in the normotensive group , no significant correlation was observed between plasma btg and total serum cholesterol ( r = 0.14 ) or between plasma btg and ldl + vldl cholesterol ( r = 0.08 ) . neither was any significant correlation found between plasma btg and serum high-density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol or total triglycerides in either group . thus , middle-aged men with untreated essential hypertension have an increased blood platelet release reaction related to their concentrations of atherogenic blood lipids . this relationship may be of pathogenetic importance for atherogenesis in hypertension . 
increasing daytime vascular resistance with progressive hypertension in ambulant patients . twenty-four-hour recordings of intra-arterial blood pressure , heart rate , and calculation of the index of peripheral vascular resistance were obtained in 20 untreated ambulant hypertensive patients during their routine activities outside the hospital . blood pressures and heart rates were higher during the day , with a mean night-to-day increase of 22 % , 34 % , and 26 % , for systolic , diastolic , and mean pressures , respectively . the average increase in the heart rate was 32 % . overall , the index of resistance was lower ( 12 % ) during the day . however , eight patients ( 40 % ) demonstrated no change or an increase in the peripheral vascular resistance . six of these eight patients had an average daytime mean pressure above 120 mm hg . there was a significant decrease in the index of resistance during exercise in all but one of the 16 subjects . hemodynamic parameters of 1 hour before and 1 hour after awakening were similar to the values obtained during the entire night and the rest of the day , respectively . our data suggest that in patients with " progressive " hypertension , the ability to decrease vascular resistance from night to day is compromised . 
right ventricular myocardial infarction with anterior wall left ventricular infarction : an autopsy study . right ventricular myocardial infarction has been reported to occur exclusively in association with inferior left ventricular infarction . to determine the frequency of right ventricular myocardial infarction in association with anterior left ventricular myocardial infarction , all hearts with anterior myocardial infarction studied over a 3-year period were examined for evidence of right ventricular necrosis or scar . of 97 hearts with anterior myocardial infarction , 13 ( 13 % ) had anterior right ventricular myocardial infarction . the right ventricular infarcts involved from 10 % to 50 % ( mean 28 % ) of the circumference of the right ventricular free wall from base to apex . the associated left ventricular infarcts were all anteroseptal and large and involved from 36 % to 67 % ( mean 50 % ) of the total area of the left ventricular free wall and septum . nine of the 13 patients underwent equilibrium radionuclide angiography and six had demonstrable right ventricular regional and global dysfunction . thus , right ventricular myocardial infarction does occur with anterior wall left ventricular infarction , and right ventricular dysfunction may be demonstrable by radionuclide angiography . further investigation is needed to define the hemodynamic characteristics , clinical importance , and therapeutic implications of anterior right ventricular myocardial infarction . 
atropine resistant post infarction complete av block : possible role of adenosine and improvement with aminophylline . 
two-dimensional and pulsed doppler echocardiography in anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery : pre and postoperative studies . 
transluminal angioplasty of a stenotic potts shunt and pulmonary arterial branch stenosis . 
cardiac valvular involvement in tangier disease . 
intravenous streptokinase and percutaneous intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation used concomitantly . 
long-term follow-up of coronary artery occlusion secondary to blunt chest trauma . 
preoperative localization of an intracardiac foreign body by two-dimensional echocardiography . 
dissection of the anterior mitral leaflet causing mitral regurgitation in aortic valve endocarditis . 
reversible cardiac dysfunction in hemochromatosis . 
determination of left ventricular volumes and ejection fraction by nuclear magnetic resonance imaging . to determine the ability of nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ) imaging to assess left ventricular ( lv ) volumes and ejection fraction ( ef ) , we studied 24 patients within 48 hours of single-plane lv angiography . in all patients , a transverse , single-plane nmr acquisition technique was employed with lv end-diastolic ( ed ) and end-systolic ( es ) volumes ( v ) calculated by a modified area-length algorithm . in nine patients , a multislice acquisition technique was employed with lvedv and lvesv calculated by a simpson 's rule algorithm . nmr-determined lvv and ef correlated reasonably well with angiographic values ( lvedv : r = 0.75 ; lvesv : r = 0.90 ; and lvef : r = 0.76 ) . the single-plane nmr technique significantly underestimated lvedv ( p less than 0.01 ) , whereas no significant difference was demonstrated for lvesv . as a result , angiographic lvef was significantly underestimated ( p less than 0.05 ) . this underestimation is likely related to off-axis imaging and to the geometric constraints of a single-plane algorithm . in comparing multislice nmr to angiographic data , no significant difference was demonstrated for lvedv , lvesv , or lvef . thus , quantitation of lvv and ef with nmr is feasible , and comparison to angiographic volumes is similar to results reported from other noninvasive imaging modalities . improvement in current acquisition techniques and software should result in further quantitative potential . 
prevalence of late potentials in patients undergoing holter monitoring . high-frequency , low-amplitude signals detected in the terminal portion of the surface qrs , called late potentials ( lp ) , have been shown to correlate with inducible sustained ventricular tachycardia and to be absent in normal subjects . we studied lp in 152 patients without a history of sustained ventricular tachycardia who underwent 24-hour holter monitoring for varying clinical indications ( chest pain 21 % , syncope 17 % , palpitations 32 % , dizziness 20 % , other 10 % ) . twenty-one patients ( 14 % ) had a positive test . of the 152 patients , 84 ( 55 % ) had complex ventricular arrhythmias and 68 ( 45 % ) had simple or no ventricular arrhythmias . complex ventricular arrhythmias were present in 71 % of patients with and in 52 % of those without lp . in conclusion : patients without history of sustained ventricular tachycardia who demonstrate complex nonsustained ventricular arrhythmias on holter monitoring have a low prevalence of lp ; the presence of lp on signal-averaged ecg indicates an electrical property of the heart , which is distinct from complex ventricular arrhythmias detected on holter monitoring . 
coaxial laser energy delivery using a steerable catheter in canine coronary arteries . intracoronary delivery of argon laser energy was studied in eight anesthetized mongrel dogs . a no . 4.5 french single lumen catheter , with steerable guidewire and an optical fiber , was introduced through a judkins-type femoral-coronary guiding catheter into three left anterior descending and eight left circumflex coronary arteries . a total of 65 laser energy exposures were made coaxially at 24 sites in the 11 arteries . at five sites , angiographically evident arterial perforation occurred with the first laser exposure , while at seven sites multiple laser exposures were made without angiographically evident perforation . all eight dogs remained hemodynamically stable , and were electively killed 5 + / - 1 hours following the procedure . sections of myocardium from territories supplied by treated arteries demonstrated minimal or no pathology in 10 cases , while one territory had a small zone of early myocardial necrosis . this study suggests that standard coronary artery catheterization techniques can be used to introduce and position a steerable guidewire and an optical fiber in canine coronary arteries . laser energy can repeatedly be delivered coaxially . short-term deleterious effects may be reduced or eliminated , and exposure of blood elements to argon laser energy does not appear to create debris . 
management of refractory sustained ventricular tachycardia with amiodarone : a reappraisal . we examined the value of clinical variables , chronic 24-hour ambulatory ecg monitoring , and chronic electrophysiologic ( ep ) testing in 49 patients with recurrent and refractory sustained ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) and ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) treated with chronic oral amiodarone in order to develop a prospective approach to the management of these patients . all patients underwent control ep studies followed by continuous telemetric cardiac monitoring during oral amiodarone administration ( mean duration 29 + / - 6 days , mean dose 739 + / - 230 mg ) . follow-up 24-hour ambulatory ecg monitoring and ep studies were performed . thirty vt recurrences occurred in the first 4 weeks of amiodarone therapy ( total incidence , 61 % ) , with the majority ( 55 % ) in the first 3 weeks of treatment . during long-term follow-up ( 1 to 42 , mean 15 + / - 12 months ) , there were 12 symptomatic vt / vf recurrences ( incidence 24 % ) . there was a higher incidence of vt recurrences if patients had inducible sustained or nonsustained vt at chronic ep study ( p less than 0.01 ) , or complex ventricular arrhythmias on ambulatory ecg monitoring ( p less than 0.05 ) . the sensitivity , specificity , and predictive accuracy of chronic ep testing and 24-hour ambulatory ecg monitoring were 100 % , 35 % , and 51 % , and 58 % , 84 % , and 78 % , respectively . chronic ep testing correctly identified all patients who had their arrhythmia suppressed by amiodarone on long-term follow-up , while 42 % of all vt recurrences occurred in patients without complex ventricular arrhythmias on 24-hour ambulatory ecg monitor . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
effects of chronic amiodarone therapy on ventricular tachycardia induced by programmed ventricular stimulation . several studies have reported upon the inducibility of ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) with programmed ventricular stimulation ( pvs ) during chronic amiodarone therapy ; however , few studies have systematically described and compared the morphology , duration , and cycle length of vt induced by pvs before and after amiodarone . in this study , 26 patients with symptomatic vt or ventricular fibrillation were evaluated by pvs by means of one to three extrastimuli ( es ) before treatment and after 2 months of amiodarone therapy . before amiodarone , sustained unimorphic vt was induced in 21 patients ( group a ) and symptomatic , nonsustained vt was induced in five patients ( group b ) . after 65 + / - 8 days of amiodarone ( total dose 64.5 + / - 8.9 gm , mean + / - s.d. ) , 15 of 21 patients ( 71 % ) in group a had sustained vt , five patients ( 24 % ) had nonsustained vt , and one patient had no vt induced . four of five patients ( 80 % ) in group b had sustained vt and one patient had no vt induced . vt was induced by the same or by fewer number of es in 79 % of cases . when the morphologies of the vt induced before and after amiodarone were compared , the morphology of vt induced after amiodarone was the same in only 8 of 24 patients ( 33 % ) , unimorphic but different in 14 patients ( 58 % ) , and polymorphic in the remaining two patients . no correlation was found between the serum concentrations of amiodarone , desethylamiodarone , tetraiodothyronine , triiodothyronine , or reverse triiodothyronine , and similarities or differences in vt morphology , vt cycle length , or the relative number of es required to induce vt after treatment with amiodarone . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
antiarrhythmic effects of indecainide in a drug-resistant population with ventricular tachycardia at programmed electrical stimulation . the antiarrhythmic properties of indecainide were studied in 15 patients with a history of a cardiac arrest or ventricular tachycardia . programmed electrical stimulation studies were performed in nine men and six women with a mean age of 68 + / - 2 years and a mean left ventricular ejection fraction of 41 + / - 4 % . all patients had inducible ventricular tachycardia by programmed electrical stimulation while off all antiarrhythmic therapy . patients were then tested on procainamide , 1000 mg , administered intravenously , and ventricular tachycardia could be provoked in 10 of 15 patients . indecainide was given intravenously , 1 mg / kg . indecainide did not significantly change the baseline heart rate , blood pressure , and qtc interval from control values . the pr and qrs intervals were significantly prolonged . twelve of 15 patients were still inducible for ventricular tachycardia on indecainide . procainamide protected 5 of 15 patients against ventricular tachycardia induction . in patients still inducible on indecainide therapy , the ventricular tachycardia rate was significantly slowed , from 281 bpm to 224 bpm on indecainide and to 215 bpm on procainamide . the effects of this new class ic antiarrhythmic agent appears similar to procainamide in patients with serious life-threatening tachyarrhythmias . 
the relationship between successful defibrillation and delivered energy in open-chest dogs : reappraisal of the " defibrillation threshold " concept . the traditional assessment of the energy required for successful ventricular defibrillation involves the measurement of a " defibrillation threshold " ( dft ) , implying a clear-cut distinction between effective and ineffective energies . we examined the relationship between delivered energy and the likelihood of successful defibrillation in 10 open-chest pentobarbital anesthetized dogs , with the use of an internal spring / patch electrode system . an initial dft was determined by decreasing the energy discharged until a failure first occurred ( 10.3 + / - 3.4 j ) . six energy levels in 1 to 2 j increments were then selected surrounding this value and each was administered eight times in balanced random order ( total 48 trials ) . the relationship between energy and percent success in defibrillation exhibited a shallow slope , with a gradual increase in success from 0 % to 100 % over several energy increments . the initial dfts showed actual success rates varying from 25 % to 87.5 % ( mean 71 + / - 26 % ) . the results were fitted to a sigmoidal dose-response curve by logistic regression analysis and the energy associated with 50 % success ( e50 ) and 80 % success ( e80 ) was determined , as no single value for dft could be defined in any animal . in 12 other dogs , a defibrillation curve was similarly constructed at baseline and was repeated after 90 minutes . no significant change in e50 ( 5.0 + / - 2.1 j vs 5.2 + / - 2.7 j ) or e80 ( 6.3 + / - 2.5 j vs 6.6 + / - 3.2 j ) was observed . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
evaluation of the right ventricle by magnetic resonance imaging . the ability of magnetic resonance imaging to evaluate right ventricular architecture and size was assessed in 149 subjects ( 26 normal volunteers and 123 patients with heart disease ) . the right ventricular myocardium was clearly delineated from adjacent structures in all patients . the trabeculated pattern of the right ventricle was well seen and was most evident during systole and in patients with right ventricular hypertrophy . the moderator band was discernible in 72 % of the subjects , whereas smaller muscular structures such as the papillary muscles were identified less frequently . magnetic resonance imaging provided a good image of the tricuspid valve leaflets but did not show the pulmonic leaflets well . the clear visualization of the endocardial and epicardial borders obtained with magnetic resonance imaging allowed measurement of wall thickness and of the internal dimensions of the cavity in normal subjects , in patients with moderate to severe systolic overload , and in patients with moderate to severe diastolic overload . patients with severe systolic overload of the right ventricle had markedly thicker walls when compared with patients without this condition . the mean internal dimension at end diastole of patients with severe diastolic overload of the right ventricle was significantly increased when compared to other subgroups . magnetic resonance imaging provides tomographic images of the right ventricle with clear distinction of the endocardial and epicardial surfaces that can be useful for quantitative and qualitative assessment of this complex structure . 
morphology of occlusive coronary lesions during acute myocardial infarction : an angiographic and clinical analysis . in an attempt to identify angiographic and clinical predictors of reperfusion , 42 patients who received intracoronary streptokinase during the early phase of myocardial infarction were analyzed . the different morphologies ( regular and irregular ) of the occlusive lesions did not show a significant relation with the response ( reperfusion vs nonreperfusion ) to intracoronary streptokinase ; neither did the presence of angiographically visualized thrombus in the infarct-related artery favor reperfusion . among the clinical variables analyzed ( previous myocardial infarction , previous angina , diabetes mellitus , hypertension , use of tobacco , and hyperlipidemia ) , a history of previous angina was significantly related to absence of reperfusion ( p = 0.001 ) . although the presence of thrombus showed a trend toward reperfusion ( p = 0.1 ) , overall , our angiographic observations did not contribute to predicting the response to streptokinase . further studies are needed to identify morphologic criteria favoring reperfusion and select groups of patients most likely to benefit from it . 
prediction of 1-year outcome after complicated and uncomplicated myocardial infarction : bayesian analysis of predischarge exercise test results in 300 patients . after myocardial infarction ( mi ) , the additive prognostic value of exercise variables to clinical variables has been questioned . the merits of a symptom-limited predischarge exercise test were therefore evaluated in clinically defined subgroups of patients . exercise tests were consecutively performed by 208 survivors of uncomplicated mi ( no heart failure , postinfarction angina , recurrent infarction , or late arrhythmias ) and by 92 survivors of complicated mi . after uncomplicated mi ( 1-year mortality rate 4 % ) , an achieved workload greater than 70 % of age-predicted maximum identified 145 patients at very low risk ( predictive value for survival 98 % ) . after complicated mi ( 1-year mortality rate 13 % ) , an exaggerated heart rate response was the best predictor of outcome , but had low ( 92 % ) predictive value of survival at 155 bpm . it is concluded that stress testing has only limited value after complicated mi . after uncomplicated mi , exercise variables are extremely helpful in identifying patients at very low risk in whom further investigations are not warranted . 
how much does aortic and pulmonary artery area vary during the cardiac cycle ? cardiac output ( co ) , as measured by doppler , is computed by multiplying vessel area by mean velocity . one unresolved problem is the magnitude of vessel area change during the cardiac cycle . prior estimates have ranged from 2 % to 30 % area change during the cardiac cycle . the purpose of this study was to measure cyclic dimensional changes in the aorta and pulmonary artery of dogs by a very sensitive technique , mercury strain gauge plethysmography . gauges were fixed around the pulmonary artery and the aorta and changes in vessel circumference were recorded under the following conditions : increased preload , increased afterload , decreased preload , and during administration of dobutamine , 5 and 10 micrograms / kg / min . percent change in circumference of the aorta at baseline was small ( mean circumference change = 4 % , sd = 1 % , see = 0.5 ) . percent change in the pulmonary artery at baseline was slightly larger ( mean circumference change = 6 % , sd = 5 % , see = 2 % ) . mean aortic area change was 9 % ( sd = 2 % ) and for the pulmonary artery it was 12 % ( sd = 10 % ) . no experimental manipulation significantly altered the percent cyclic change in vessel size from baseline except for clamping the inferior vena cava , in which mean percent change in aortic circumference decreased to 1 % ( sd = 1 % , see = 5 % ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . percent change in the aorta correlated only weakly with heart rate ( r = 0.48 ) , blood pressure ( r = 0.4 ) , and co ( r = 0.46 ) . similar values were obtained for the pulmonary artery . these data demonstrate a small but definite cyclic change in pulmonary artery area , and to a lesser extent in aortic area . 
determination of total body water by deuterium nmr . a new deuterium nuclear magnetic resonance ( 2h nmr ) method is described for determining total body water in humans . the method has been validated against a standard infrared absorption ( ir ) procedure using a tracer dose of deuterium oxide ( 2h2o ) of approximately 10 g for each human subject . the precision and accuracy for the methods have been compared and found to be very similar . the advantages of the 2h nmr method over other presently available techniques that are based on 2h2o dilution are as follows : it is fast , accurate , needs only a small dose of 2h2o , can be done using any body fluid , and , most importantly , does not require any sample preparation . 
seasonal variation in intake of carotenoids and vegetables and fruits among white men in new jersey . in a population-based case-control study of lung cancer among new jersey men , usual adult consumption of many vegetables and fruits was included in the interview to assess the protective potential of carotenoids . with data from 900 controls the percentage of new jersey white men who eat specific vegetables and fruits primarily in certain seasons , the relative importance of in-season and out-of-season consumption , and the median length of season were determined . although first asking whether a food item was consumed all-year-round or primarily in certain seasons and then asking for the appropriate frequency of consumption facilitated the interview , obtaining out-of-season frequency of consumption and length of season was not necessary . substituting 0 for reported out-of-season frequencies and 3 mo for reported season lengths reduced slightly the observed associations between diet and lung cancer risk but did not modify the overall pattern noted . carotenoid intake in winter-fall was estimated to be about two-thirds that in summer-spring . 
the effect of pumpkin seeds on oxalcrystalluria and urinary compositions of children in hyperendemic area . we investigated the effect of pumpkin-seed supplementation on oxalcrystalluria and urinary composition in 20 boys age 2-7 yr from a hyperendemic area of ubol province in thailand . the experiment had four periods : control ( before treatment ) , oxalate supplementation 5mg x kg-1 body wt x day-1 , pumpkin-seed or orthophosphate supplementation 60 mg x kg body wt-1 x day-1 , and posttreatment . causal morning and 24-h urines were collected analyzed for crystalluria , ph , calcium , phosphorous , oxalate , creatinine , sodium , potassium , citrate glycosaminoglycans , and pyrophosphate . the results demonstrated that the longer the supplementation period of pumpkin seeds , the better were the results . pumpkin seeds lowered calcium-oxalate crystal occurrence and calcium level but increased phosphorus , pyrophosphate , glycosaminoglycans , and potassium values in urine as compared with orthophosphate supplementation . pumpkin seeds provide high phosphorus levels and can be used as a potential agent in lowering the risk of bladder-stone disease . 
are iron-folate supplements harmful ? zinc absorption during pregnancy was measured before and 24 h after 2 wk of daily , oral , iron-folate supplements . absorption was reduced 24 h after iron-folate , which suggests a mucosal rather than a luminal effect . also , zinc absorption in 10 healthy volunteers was reduced by folate supplements alone . therefore , routine iron and folate supplementation may both have deleterious effects on zinc metabolism , especially during pregnancy when iron-folate supplements are often prescribed despite adequate dietary intakes of iron and folate but not of zinc . 
body weight , blood pressure , and electrolyte excretion of young adults from six ethnic groups in hawaii . there is positive correlation between high dietary intake of sodium and prevalence of hypertensive disease . dietary potassium shows a negative correlation with this prevalence . racial background of subjects may affect such relationships . this is a study of the relationships between ethnicity and blood pressure in young adults of six ethnic groups in hawaii . body weight , electrolyte excretion , which may reflect intake , and blood pressure of the subjects are reported here . caucasians and hawaiians and part-hawaiian young adults tended to be taller and heavier than the chinese , filipinos , japanese , and koreans . both systolic and diastolic pressures were significantly higher in males than in females ( all races combined ) . no significant differences between sexes or races were found in urinary excretion of sodium and potassium or in urinary sodium : potassium ratios . body weight and quetelet 's index but not sodium : potassium ratio correlated significantly with diastolic pressure . 
a new tobec instrument and procedure for the assessment of body composition : use of fourier coefficients to predict lean body mass and total body water . a second-generation total body electrical-conductivity instrument ( tobec ii ) that uses convolution principles was evaluated . this study 1 ) examined the stability of the instrument , 2 ) validated the relationship of total body electrical conductivity to isotopically determined total body water ( tbw ) and densitometrically determined lean body mass ( lbm ) , and 3 ) developed prediction equations for lbm , tbw , and total body potassium using fourier coefficients . in a sample of 40 men and women aged 19-35 yr and ranging from 6 % to 36 % body fat , the correlations among the zero- , first- , and second-order fourier coefficients ( fc0 , fc1 , fc2 ) with lbm were r = 0.97 , 0.98 , and 0.99 , respectively . similarly , the correlations with tbw were r = 0.96 , 0.97 , and 0.98 , respectively . the best prediction equation was for lbm : lbm ( kg ) = 22.998 + 0.102fc0 + 0.062fc1 - 0.29fc2 ( r2 = 0.983 and see = 1.43 kg ) . 
comparison of methods to measure physical activity in postmenopausal women . five methods for assessing physical activity were evaluated in a population of 255 white , postmenopausal women participating in a randomized trial on the effects of walking on bone loss . methods were the paffenbarger survey , a modified paffenbarger , the large-scale integrated activity monitor ( lsi ) , caloric intake , and the baecke survey . significant increase in physical activity was observed in the intervention group . activity measures were weakly related to each other . results of factor analyses suggest that factor i reflected voluntary leisure-time pursuits ( such as walking ) and factor ii , activities of daily living . participation in sports was not a significant contributor to overall activity of the women . research on physical activity must define the particular dimension of activity measured . several types of instruments should be used because different instruments reflect different activity patterns which , in turn , may be differentially related to disease . 
impaired fat deposition in pregnancy : an indicator for nutritional intervention . unselective dietary supplementation of pregnant mothers can have adverse effects . it is essential to predict which mothers are nutritionally at risk and would benefit from supplementation . preliminary studies indicated that mothers who increased their triceps skinfold by less than or equal to 20 micron during the second trimester were nutritionally at risk of having a small baby . in this study anthropometric indicators were explored in 81 asian mothers living in birmingham . single ( distance ) measurements ( eg , weight at 28 wk , etc ) were not effective predictors . changes in measurements of the arm during the second trimester were predictive , and triceps skinfold remained the most effective predictor of poor fetal growth . this measurement probably reflects the balance of energy intake minus energy expenditure during the critical second trimester when the mother would normally be laying down extra fat in anticipation of later fetal demands . 
benefits associated with wic supplemental feeding during the interpregnancy interval . interpregnancy wic supplementation was evaluated by comparing maternal nutritional status indicators and subsequent birth outcomes of 703 wic participants divided into two groups . study group women received postpartum benefits for 5-7 mo while control group women received postpartum benefits for only 0-2 mo . both groups received prenatal benefits during each of two study pregnancies . infants born to study group women had a higher mean birthweight ( 131 g ) and birthlength ( 0.3 cm ) and a lower risk of being less than or equal to 2500 g . additionally , at the onset of the second pregnancy study group women had higher mean hemoglobin levels and lower risk of maternal obesity . these results suggest that postpartum wic supplementation has positive benefits for both the mother and her subsequent infants . 
macro- and trace-mineral intakes of exclusively breast-fed infants . intakes of calcium , phosphorus , magnesium , zinc , sodium , potassium , iron , and copper of 45 exclusively breast-fed infants were determined during the first 4 mo of life . direct 24-h measurements of milk intake and mineral contents of human milk were used to estimate mineral intakes . daily intakes of ca , p , zn , k , na , fe , and cu decreased significantly over the study period while the intake of mg increased . with the exception of mg , mineral intakes on a weight basis displayed significant quadratic trends over the 4 mo . in spite of seemingly low-mineral intakes , growth progressed satisfactorily . 
formula feeding results in lower selenium status than breast-feeding or selenium supplemented formula feeding : a longitudinal study . thirty-two infants completely weaned by age 3.2 mo were randomized into two groups . unsupplemented group was fed cow 's milk-based liquid formula containing 3-5 micrograms se / l . se-supplemented group received the same formula supplemented with 20 micrograms se / l . a third group consisted of exclusively breast-fed infants ( 51 at age 4 mo , 41 at 6 mo , 12 at 9 mo ) . mean serum se concentration in unsupplemented group decreased from 41 to 31 micrograms / l during the first 2 mo and remained constant until age 6 mo increasing gradually thereafter . in se-supplemented group it increased steadily from 41 to 68 micrograms / l at age 6 mo and remained constant while supplemented formula was used . in breast-fed group it increased steadily until age 9 mo , between the levels of the two formula-fed groups , when it reached the concentration of se-supplemented group . at age 12 mo no significant differences were present among the three groups . 
short-term effect of two cholesterol-lowering diets on sterol excretion in ileostomy patients . the effect of two cholesterol-lowering diets ( pufa , lo ) on the excretion of bile acids and neutral sterols , measured by glc , was studied in six healthy ileostomates . the reference diet contained 100 g of fat and 13 g of dietary fiber . pufa was increased in polyunsaturated fatty acids but fat level remained the same . lo was reduced in total fat with a concomitant increase in dietary fiber . bile acid , net cholesterol , and net sterol excretion increased by 22 % , 28 % , and 24 % ( p less than 0.01 ) , respectively , on pufa . on lo , net cholesterol and net sterol excretion increased by 27 % and 18 % ( p less than 0.01 ) , respectively . results support the concept of changes in sterol excretion as a mechanism for changes in blood-lipid levels induced by cholesterol-lowering diets . 
plasma lipids and hypertension : response to calcium supplementation . evidence from animal and human studies indicate that calcium supplementation may ameliorate two risk factors for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease , hypertension and hyperlipidemia . we sought to characterize dietary fat consumption and plasma lipid profiles in hypertensive and normotensive subjects and plasma lipid responses to supplemental calcium . a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled , crossover protocol was used to assess blood pressure and lipid response to 8 wk of 1000 mg of elemental calcium in 43 hypertensive and 27 normotensive subjects . nutrient intakes and plasma lipids were measured repeatedly . hypertensive female subjects consumed significantly less ( p less than 0.05 ) phosphorus , potassium , and magnesium and had significantly higher triglycerides ( p less than 0.04 ) and lower hdl-cholesterol ( p less than 0.02 ) than did normotensive subjects . there were no significant changes in dietary plasma lipids with calcium supplementation . mildly hyperlipidemic normotensive subjects had a significant decrease in total cholesterol ( p less than 0.05 ) . no significant changes in plasma lipids occurred with calcium supplementation in hypertensive subjects . 
assessment of intra-abdominal and subcutaneous abdominal fat : relation between anthropometry and computed tomography . the ability to distinguish between intra-abdominal and subcutaneous abdominal fat may be important in epidemiologic and clinical research . in this study anthropometric measurements were taken from 71 men and 34 women presenting for routine computed tomography ( ct ) . areas of abdominal fat were calculated from ct scans made at the level of the l4 vertebra . the amounts of intra-abdominal and subcutaneous abdominal fat could be accurately predicted from several circumferences , skinfold measurements , body mass index , and age ( r2 ranged from 0.79 to 0.84 ) . in addition , it was found that the area of intra-abdominal fat on the ct scan was related to the waist : hip circumference ratio ( r = 0.75 in men , r = 0.55 in women ) and to the waist : thigh circumference ratio ( r = 0.55 in men , r = 0.70 in women ) . the correlations of the circumference ratios with the areas of subcutaneous fat were invariably lower . 
carbohydrate metabolism and de novo lipogenesis in human obesity . respiratory exchange was measured during 14 consecutive hours in six lean and six obese individuals after ingestion of 500 g of dextrin maltose to investigate and compare their capacity for net de novo lipogenesis . after ingestion of the carbohydrate load , metabolic rates rose similarly in both groups but fell earlier and more rapidly in the obese . rqs also rose rapidly and remained in the range of 0.95 to 1.00 for approximately 8 h in both groups . during this time , rq exceeded 1.00 for only short periods of time with the result that 4 + / - 1 g and 5 + / - 3 g ( ns ) of fat were synthesized via de novo lipogenesis in excess of concomitant fat oxidation in the lean and obese subjects , respectively . results demonstrate that net de novo lipid synthesis from an unusually large carbohydrate load is not greater in obese than in lean individuals . 
the glycemic response to meals with six different fruits in insulin-dependent diabetics using a home blood-glucose monitoring system . glycemic effect of adding 10-g carbohydrate portions of apple , banana , grapes , honeydew , orange , or strawberries to a standard meal on separate occasions was measured in 10 insulin-dependent diabetics monitored at home . the meal comprised 29 % of total daily caloric intake and contained green beans , rice , turkey , and margarine ( 50 % carbohydrate , 20 % protein , and 30 % fat ) . blood-glucose response to meals containing grapes , honeydew , orange , or strawberries was slightly higher than meals containing apple , banana , or no fruit and the small amount of starch in apple and banana may have contributed to their lower blood-glucose response compared to the other fruits tested . age , duration of diabetes , or insulin regimen did not correlate with subjects ' responses to fruit . 
calories and energy expenditure in carcinogenesis . proceedings of a symposium , washington , d.c. , february 24 and 25 , 1986. 
isocaloric diets : effects of dietary changes . 
efficiency and utilization of various energy sources for growth . the efficiency of energy utilization by animals during growth is influenced by a number of factors including composition of the diet and sex and strain of the animal . net energy efficiency is " the proportion of total energy intake [ that ] is not lost in the stool , urine , or as diet-induced heat losses ( specific dynamic action ) and , thus , is available for obligate energy demands ( basal metabolic rate ) , for physical work , and for storage ( or growth ) " . in studies reporting an increased efficiency in the utilization of energy from fat than from equal amounts of energy from carbohydrate , this increased efficiency is indicated by less energy lost by the animal as heat and more energy retained in the carcass of the animal as fat . because the energy yield from nutrients and the efficiency of energy utilization appear to differ under various conditions , energy intakes using the atwater values cannot be assumed to be physiologically equivalent in providing energy to the animal during growth . 
body weight and cancer . 
stages in carcinogenesis : alteration by diet . 
fat and calorie effects on carcinogenesis at sites other than the mammary gland . 
fat and essential fatty acid in mammary carcinogenesis . 
caloric effects in experimental mammary tumorigenesis . 
influence of body weight on the incidence of spontaneous tumors in rats and mice of long-term studies . 
fat , calories , and mammary carcinogenesis : net energy effects . 
obesity , diet , endogenous estrogens , and the risk of hormone-sensitive cancer . in postmenopausal women , obesity is positively related to the risk of both breast and endometrial cancer . additionally , obesity is associated with increased estrogen production secondary to increased peripheral aromatization . in postmenopausal women , this effect is proportionately more significant because the ovaries no longer contribute to production of estrogen . obesity also alters the further metabolism of estrogens , resulting in products that retain estrogenic potency . consequently , the estrogen-sensitive tissues of obese women are exposed to more stimulation than those tissues in leaner women . it is possible that this increased estrogen exposure is responsible for the augmented risk of breast and endometrial cancer observed in obesity . evidence is accumulating that dietary macronutrients can alter the metabolism and excretion of endogenous estrogen and androgen , providing a potential mechanism by which diet can modulate the risk of hormone-sensitive cancers . 
effect of aging and obesity on aromatase activity of human adipose cells . 
dietary fat , carbohydrate balance , and weight maintenance : effects of exercise . 
physical activity and incidence of cancer in diverse populations : a preliminary report . 
occupational exercise and risk of cancer . 
lower lifetime occurrence of breast cancer and cancers of the reproductive system among former college athletes . 
fats , calories , and calorie expenditure in the epidemiology of cancer . 
implications of total energy intake for epidemiologic studies of breast and large-bowel cancer . animal studies suggest that the energy-restriction hypothesis should be considered in addition to the fat-composition hypothesis as an explanation for the strong international differences in risk of breast cancer . because of the complex meaning of total energy intake , studies that attempt to examine directly the relationship between energy intake and cancer risk are likely to be misleading . carefully conducted and interpreted studies of height and relative weight may be more revealing , although they are susceptible to diagnostic bias . these studies may prove useful in expanding our limited knowledge about breast and colon cancer , but they will have few direct implications for public health because individuals are not likely to restrict their energy intake voluntarily to a substantial degree , even if the energy-restriction hypothesis is correct . 
pulmonary hyalinizing granuloma . pulmonary hyalinizing granulomas are distinct fibrosing lesions of lung , having central whorled deposits of lamellar collagen . twenty-four cases of this unusual pulmonary lesion are reported herein . hyalinizing granulomas occur in middle-aged persons and are frequently mistaken for metastatic carcinoma radiographically . more than half of the patients had autoimmune phenomena or previous exposures to mycobacterial or fungal antigens . four patients had sclerosing mediastinitis develop . a progressive debilitating clinical course was related to increasing dyspnea and bilateral disease on chest radiographs . a discussion of the histogenesis and histologic differential diagnosis is presented . 
reduced association between the ii blood group and congenital cataracts in white patients . the authors have identified a white patient with the red blood cell phenotype i , who also has congenital cataracts . however , in comparison with the strong association in japanese patients between congenital cataracts and the i phenotype , the overall incidence of cataracts in white people with the i phenotype ( three of ten people have congenital cataracts ) is much lower . in addition , the authors studied the blood of 31 white patients with congenital cataracts and found no patients with the i phenotype . thus , a close link between genes for these traits does not appear in most white patients with i red blood cell phenotypes . 
reliability and significance of increased creatine kinase mb isoenzyme in the serum of uremic patients . the authors quantified creatine kinase mb ( ck-mb ) isoenzyme activity and mass in the serum of 81 uremic and 20 nonuremic ( control ) patients who had no clinical or electrocardiographic evidence of acute myocardial infarction . ck-mb was quantified by three methods : electrophoresis , the quick-mb ( international immunoassay labs ) , and the tandem-e ck-mb ( hybritech , inc . ) . the authors then followed all uremic patients for subsequent hospitalization for cardiac disease . median ck-mb was increased in the serum of the uremic patients as compared with the control patients by all methods . most uremic patients had ck-mb in serum above the median ck-mb of the control group . seventeen ( 21 % ) uremic patients had ck-mb in serum elevated above the reference range by at least one method . all control patients had ck-mb in the serum within the reference range . twelve of 81 ( 15 % ) uremic patients have subsequently developed acute myocardial infarction ( six patients ; four died ) or angina pectoris ( six patients ; one died ) . eleven patients were specifically hospitalized for cardiac symptoms . one patient had acute myocardial infarction three weeks after renal transplant . with the use of the chi-square test and 2 x 2 contingency tables , patients with ck-mb in serum above 5 u / l by electrophoresis ( chi 2 = 5.47 ; p less than 0.05 ) or at least 2.9 eu / l by the quick-mb ( chi 2 = 6.56 ; p less than 0.01 ) appeared to be at increased risk of subsequent hospitalization . the authors conclude that a slight increase of ck-mb in serum is found in most uremic patients . however , ck-mb elevated above reference range in the serum of uremic patients without clinical or electrocardiographic evidence of acute myocardial infarction is not common . when found , elevated ck-mb isoenzyme appears to be associated with an increased risk of subsequent cardiac disease . therefore , quantification of ck-mb in the serum of uremic patients is more reliable than is implied in the literature . 
cytomegalovirus infection initially diagnosed by skin biopsy . the reported cases of cutaneous involvement by cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) are mostly limited to descriptions in immunocompromised patients who had other evidence of systemic cmv infection or in patients whose disseminated infection was not diagnosed until autopsy . however , three cases of cmv infection initially diagnosed from antemortem biopsy of skin lesions have been documented in the literature . the authors review in depth one of these three cases and describe two new cases of cmv infection first identified by skin biopsy . the latter two are the first detailed descriptions of this infection in the skin of burned patients . review of the literature describing cutaneous cmv involvement reveals protean epidermal and dermal manifestations with consistent histologic findings . recently , however , there has been documentation of histologically occult cmv in patients with disseminated cmv infection . skin biopsy of cutaneous lesions in immunocompromised patients is important in the diagnosis of systemic cmv infection . 
inflammatory and lymphoid lesions of the thyroid gland . cytopathology by fine-needle aspiration . the cytopathologic characteristics of the inflammatory and lymphoid thyroid lesions as seen in fine-needle aspirate smears of 103 patients are reviewed , with emphasis on pitfalls and association with other neoplasms . the cytologic diagnoses were as follows : subacute thyroiditis , 3 ; hashimoto 's thyroiditis ( ht ) with or without hurthle cell nodule , 77 ; ht and hurthle cell tumor , 2 ; ht and follicular neoplasm , 3 ; ht and papillary carcinoma , 5 ; lymphoma , 3 ; ht and nodular colloid goiter , 10. fourteen patients were operated . five erroneous diagnoses were uncovered ; inexperience was the main reason for the mistakes . the greatest diagnostic difficulties are encountered in cases of hurthle cell nodules and malignant lymphoma , but mistakes are likely to disappear after reasonable experience . thyroid antibodies are of no help in sorting diagnostic problems , because a positive titer is only corroborative evidence of underlying ht and does not rule out an associated tumor . conversely , a negative titer does not discard the diagnosis of ht . the association of nodular colloid goiter and ht is depicted . problems of sampling and staining technic are discussed . 
giant platelets and platelet clumping on the h6000 [ letter ] 
lactational and clear cell changes of the breast in nonlactating , nonpregnant women . secretory changes that occurred in the breasts of 32 women who were not pregnant or lactating were reviewed . these changes took two forms , with partial or complete involvement of one or more lobules . the more frequently occurring focal lactating effect was observed in 23 patients . the second form , a marked clearing of the cytoplasm within acinar cells , occurred in nine patients . both patterns were present simultaneously in 2 of the 32 patients . hormonal , anti-psychotic , and anti-hypertensive medications appear to correlate with the lactational change . 
the significance of intraepithelial eosinophils in the histologic diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux . detection of intraepithelial eosinophils in esophageal mucosal biopsies has been suggested as histologic evidence of symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux ( ger ) disease in both children and adults . previous studies have primarily examined symptomatic persons , and only one study included a comparison with normal controls . in the present study , the authors examined esophageal mucosal biopsies obtained by the hydraulic suction technic for the presence of intraepithelial eosinophils from 73 adult patients with subjective and objective evidence of ger disease and 12 asymptomatic adult volunteers in whom a series of esophageal function tests were normal . intraepithelial eosinophils were identified in 23 ( 31.5 % ) of adult patients and in 4 ( 33.3 % ) of the asymptomatic volunteers . no clinical aspects in the ger patients correlated with the presence of eosinophils . by crude quantitation , rare eosinophils added little to more conventional assessment of histologic esophagitis and were present in one-third of normal subjects . the authors conclude that rare eosinophils in esophageal biopsies may not be a reliable criterion for the histologic assessment of ger disease . 
isolation and characterization of campylobacter pyloridis from gastric biopsies . gastric biopsy specimens were examined microbiologically and histologically for the presence of campylobacter pyloridis . of 51 randomly selected patients , 22 ( 43 % ) were found to harbor c . pyloridis in the gastric mucosa . the histologic demonstration of spiral organisms observed by staining with hematoxylin and eosin correlated well with microbiologic isolation of the organisms . there was a strong association ( 95.5 % ) between c . pyloridis in the gastric mucosa and histologically defined gastritis . however , there was no obvious association between c . pyloridis and ulcers . all c . pyloridis strains isolated exhibited uniform biochemical characteristics and had almost identical protein profiles , which indicated that they belong to a relatively homogeneous group distinct from other campylobacter species . all c . pyloridis isolates were uniformly susceptible to ampicillin , amoxicillin , cephalothin , gentamicin , kanamycin , tetracycline , coumermycin , ciprofloxacin , novobiocin , clorobiocin , and nitrofurantoin . they were moderately resistant to nalidixic acid . 
amiodarone-associated pulmonary toxicity . a clinical and pathologic study of eleven cases . the new anti-arrhythmic agent , amiodarone , is increasingly recognized as a cause of pulmonary toxicity ( apt ) . in the present series , 11 of 171 patients ( 6.4 % ) receiving the drug had apt develop . clinical symptoms varied from mild cough and dyspnea to acute respiratory failure . chest x-rays demonstrated alveolar and / or interstitial opacities in all 11 patients . the microscopic appearance of apt resembled that seen in lung injury from other drugs . the features were those of diffuse alveolar damage , ranging from the early acute to the organizing phase . mural and intraalveolar foam cells were a prominent component . the epithelial origin of these cells was confirmed by positive immunoperoxidase staining for carcinoembryonic antigen . they were further identified as type ii pneumocytes by electron microscopic examination . these findings support the concept that amiodarone is responsible for a drug-induced phospholipidosis . apt was clinically reversible in all patients ; however , five patients ( 45 % ) died of arrhythmia shortly after discontinuation of amiodarone . 
the technicon h * 1--an automated hematology analyzer for today and tomorrow . complete blood count parameters . the performance of the technicon h * 1 was evaluated in the computerized , high-volume hematology laboratory at m.d. anderson hospital and tumor institute and compared with that of reference instrumentation used for routine patient care . the precision , linearity , and lack of carry-over of this instrument was excellent for the entire dynamic range of all nine tested parameters ( white blood cells [ wbcs ] , red blood cells [ rbcs ] , hemoglobin [ hgb ] , hematocrit [ hct ] , mean corpuscular volume [ mcv ] , mean corpuscular hemoglobin [ mch ] , mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration [ mchc ] , red blood cell distribution width [ rdw ] , and platelets [ plts ] ) . coefficients of correlation for all directly measured parameters were always 0.98 or greater , with the exception of the mcv and rdw parameters , for which r = 0.89 and 0.93 , respectively . special emphasis was placed on wbc and plt counts at low ranges . when compared with reference methods the correlation for both parameters was very good , r = 0.99 for wbcs less than 4.0 x 10 ( 3 ) / microl ( 4.0 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ) and 0.91 for plt less than 100 x 10 ( 3 ) / microl ( 100 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ) . these excellent performance characteristics for the cbc parameters , combined with the ability of the analyzer to perform a full wbc differential ( to be described in the next report ) , make the h * 1 a superior advancement in the field of automated hematology . 
the effect of biologic specimen type on the gas chromatographic headspace analysis of ethanol and other volatile compounds . gas chromatographic analyses of 37 degrees c headspace vapors above liquid phases saturated with sodium chloride demonstrated that the partitioning of isopropanol , n-propanol , and t-butanol from blood , plasma , or serum to headspace vapor was greatly reduced relative to that observed with the use of water as the liquid phase . the partitioning of ethanol and acetone was moderately reduced with these specimens relative to water , while no effect was seen with methanol or acetonitrile . normal urine only slightly affected relative partitioning , and vitreous humor had no effect . the partitioning reductions observed with blood were not affected by changing the equilibration temperature to 25 degrees c , by lengthening the equilibration time to three days , nor by changing the concentration of the volatiles in the liquid phase . the use of saturated sodium sulfate enhanced the differences in partitioning observed between water and blood . only with substantial dilution ( 5 : 1 ) of blood specimens was the effect abolished . 
the immediate problems of aircraft fires . fires that occur either while aircraft are in flight or as a consequence of a crash remain life-threatening possibilities despite progress in technology and adoption of safety precautions . this article details some of the likely causes of aircraft fires , the resulting dangers in the immediate environment , prospects for survival , and recommends additional measures that may help avoid future accidents . 
diagnosis of sudden death in infants due to acute dehydration . when infants die suddenly of acute dehydration , clinical signs and autopsy findings may be equivocal or absent , and microbiologic cultures often are not helpful . vitreous humor electrolyte and urea nitrogen concentrations were measured in 53 infants dying of gastrointestinal infections , sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) , other infectious diseases , and miscellaneous causes to determine whether these parameters would assist in the recognition and confirmation of deaths resulting from dehydration . significant differences were found when comparing the mean sodium and urea nitrogen levels of infants dying of gastrointestinal infections with those succumbing to sids or other causes . we recommend that these determinations be routinely performed whenever the gross autopsy findings are insufficient to explain the death . 
evaluation of sudden death in epilepsy . records of the office of the chief medical examiner of the state of maryland were reviewed for all cases of natural deaths due to epilepsy occurring in 1981 and 1982. cases involving unclear seizure history , alcoholism , or other superimposed disorders were excluded . twenty-nine cases were accepted and analyzed with respect to age , race , sex , circumstances of death , neuropathology , and anticonvulsant therapy . most cases involved black males , the median age at death was 26 years , and the vast majority died in bed or in the bedroom . less than half of these individuals had neuropathological lesions . most had detectable levels of anticonvulsants in post-mortem blood ; more than half the decedents with detectable levels of phenobarbital showed therapeutic levels of this drug . 
the myocardium in epileptics . the main purpose of this investigation was to examine by quantitative methods if pathological fibrosis could be found in the myocardium of epileptics . the investigation was retrospective and included 23 epileptics and 30 controls who were age- and sex-matched with the epileptics . no difference was found between epileptics and the control group as far as cellular infiltration , single myocyte necrosis , basophilic cell degeneration , and fresh bleeding were concerned . fibrosis of the myocardium was measured quantitatively by point counting . the fibrosis was approximately 6 % of the muscle mass in both groups . in conclusion , no structural difference in the myocardial composition was found between epileptics and the control group . 
bodies found in the water . an investigative approach . the determination of the cause of death of a person whose body is found in the water requires careful investigative work on the part of both police and pathologists . opinions as to cause and manner of death should not be derived from the autopsy alone but must result from a logical correlation of data regarding victim identity , circumstances , autopsy , and laboratory findings . 
ultrastructural changes in liver after the test exposition of laser irradiation . the aim of this research was to verify characteristic morphological changes in the liver with regard to survival time after laser irradiation . the duration of irradiation was constant . for the purpose of irradiation we used a helium-neon laser . the value of the energy absorbed during the exposition amounted to about 2.5 j . segments from the irradiated liver field of rats were taken directly after decapitation following different times of survival , and the changes were estimated in an ultrastructural microscope . our results showed dependence of certain morphological changes ( perceptible only by ultrastructural examination ) on the time of survival after irradiation . 
experimental studies on death by fire in automobiles and exhaust gas poisoning . studies were made on the acid-base balance , blood gases , and carbon monoxide ( co ) , cyanide , and sulfur dioxide concentrations in the blood of albino rabbits that died from automobile exhaust gas poisoning ( group i ) or fires in cars ( complete combustion , group ii ; incomplete combustion , group iii ) . in group i , the temperature and co concentration increased gradually to 35 degrees c and 5.2 % in 70 min . the animals died after 9 min , when the values were 20 degrees c and 5.2 % , respectively . in group ii the animals died after 9 min , when the values were 55 degrees c and 1.95 % , respectively . in group iii , the temperature was very high ( 870 degrees c ) , but the co concentration was not ( 0.6-1.3 % ) after 4 min . the animals died after 5 min . in all experimental groups , marked acidosis and hypoxemia were seen , but the co2 tension ( pco2 ) was high , in contrast to previous studies on pure co poisoning . in group i , the level of carboxyhemoglobin ( co-hb ) was significantly higher ( 91.2 + / - 3.4 % in arterial blood , 87.5 + / - 8.1 % in venous blood ; p less than 0.01 ) than in groups ii and iii . although the o2 tensions of venous and arterial blood ( pvo2 , pao2 ) were very low , that of arterial blood was higher , suggesting that o2 was still being utilized in the tissues at the time of death . in group ii , co-hb was high ( 57.7 + / - 16.0 % in arterial blood , 61.2 + / - 20.6 % in venous blood ) and the acid-base balance indicated marked acidosis . in group iii , the co-hb , pco2 and cyanide levels in the blood were very high . ( abstract truncated at 250 words ) 
true vehicular homicide . true vehicular homicides are defined as those occurrences in which a motor vehicle is used as a weapon in the taking of a life . while local customs may vary in classifying vehicular-related deaths , this author is not considering the " hit-and-run " type case or the negligent manslaughter type , which are best left in the accidental manners of death . rather , a study of homicide by motor vehicle is presented using nine cases of vehicular homicide that occurred over a 5-year period in metropolitan dade county . the essence of such cases and how the forensic scientist should approach them are discussed . 
disaster planning for air crashes . a retrospective analysis of delta airlines flight 191. the effectiveness of previously untested disaster plans was demonstrated during the aftermath of the crash of delta airlines flight 191 at d / fw international airport on friday , august 2 , 1985. these plans , in effect for years and subjected to periodic review , were as yet untried before this first disaster at d / fw international since its opening . this paper outlines the disaster plans , the actual problems encountered , the logistics of a disaster of this kind , and insights gained from the experience . 
dental identification problems in the abu dhabi air accident . the forensic odontological examination of 112 victims in the 1983 air accident near abu dhabi is described with particular reference to the problems encountered in the age assessment of the 26 children , and serves to illustrate that dental identification in aviation accidents may be of only limited application in asian victims . following this accident , other means of identification had misguidedly been removed by the recovery teams . of those identified , half were by dental means alone , but this amounted to only 6.24 % of the total number of victims . 
toxicological findings in fatal aircraft accidents in the united kingdom . toxicology studies can contribute much to investigations into the causes of accidents . this paper examines toxicological data from 485 fatal aircraft accidents over a 24-year period in terms of relevance to causing accidents and difficulties in procuring samples for analysis . 
suicide by xylene ingestion . a case report and review of literature . a 27-year-old male committed suicide by ingestion of a large quantity of xylene . the presence of xylene in the tissues of the victim was confirmed by chromatographic and spectrometric techniques . high levels of xylene were detected in blood ( 11 mg / dl ) , gastric contents ( 880 mg / dl ) , and duodenal contents ( 3 , 300 mg / dl ) . histological examination of the lungs showed severe congestion and acute pulmonary edema . review of the relevant literature is presented . 
wah mee massacre . the murder of 13 chinese adults in a seattle gambling club . this report covers the murder of 13 oriental adults in seattle , washington , on february 19 , 1983. the victims were patrons of a local gambling club and were murdered systematically during a robbery . this report highlights the management of multiple homicide victims and illustrates interesting features which were developed during the investigation . 
dermal surface morphology in wound healing . an experimental scanning electron microscope study . the authors observed , with a scanning electron microscope , the dermal surfaces of experimental wounds , following the enzymatic digestion with trypsin of the dermo-epidermal junction . cut lesions showed an early reconstitution of the basement membrane and progressive convergence of the margins . a peculiar arrangement of the dermal crests was also observed . in wounds with loss of substance , the complete coating by newly formed basement membrane took longer . there was an early deformation of the holes of hair follicles in the undamaged dermis surrounding the lesion , as well as the appearance of creases that moved toward the center . this process was over within a few days ; then the lesion became very small and the holes of the hair follicles reappeared . the results suggest a force of traction bound toward the center of the lesion and acting on the surface , the effects of which on the basement membrane are most evident between the eighth and the 15th days . 
fatal nonatherosclerotic myocardial infarction in a young man with allergic bronchial asthma . a 34-year-old man with allergic asthma died an ( instantaneous ) sudden cardiac death as a result of multiple myocardial infarcts . these occurred in the absence of coronary atherosclerosis . the major mechanism by which the infarcts occurred was recurrent coronary artery spasm . the latter can occur spontaneously , asthma patients being particularly prone to it . however , various medications prescribed by different physicians may also have played a role . 
unilateral pulmonary edema complicating chest compression and cardiac avulsion . a 16-year-old male passenger involved in an automobile accident was observed at autopsy to have total avulsion of the heart from its vascular connections and severe unilateral pulmonary edema . the nature of the injuries and the circumstances of the accident revealed that this finding was not an indication of survival of even limited duration . the possible pathogenesis of the pulmonary edema in the context of the injuries received by the victim are discussed . 
an unusual case of compression asphyxia and smothering . scene investigation is an important part of the medicolegal autopsy . in many cases the cause of death cannot be determined without knowledge of the circumstances . a case is presented in which the diagnosis of compression asphyxia and smothering was made only after analysis of the scene findings . 
measuring wounds on autopsy photographs [ letter ] 
endotoxemia , encephalopathy , and mortality in cirrhotic patients . endotoxemia without sepsis was detected with a chromogenic limulus assay in 36 of 39 ( 92.3 % ) cirrhotic patients and was absent in seven healthy volunteers . in 11 patients who underwent elective portasystemic shunt , portal vein endotoxemia was higher than inferior vena caval : p less than 0.05 , systemic endotoxin levels did not change , compared to preoperative levels , on the 1st , 2nd , and 3rd postoperative days , attendant to an uneventful recovery . in 21 patients in hepatic encephalopathy after esophagogastric hemorrhage , systemic endotoxemia was higher than in well-compensated cirrhotics : p less than 0.001 ; it was higher in deep than in light coma : p less than 0.05 ; it was higher in those who died than in those who survived : p less than 0.001 . endotoxin levels showed a positive correlation with serum bilirubin : r = 0.59 , p less than 0.001 , and a negative correlation with prothrombin activity : r = -0.59 , p less than 0.001 . these data show endotoxemia without sepsis is a constant finding in cirrhosis and increasing levels of endotoxemia are associated with hepatic failure , encephalopathy , and death . 
effects of esophageal transection combined with splenectomy on portal hemodynamics . portal hemodynamics were studied in 69 patients with cirrhosis and 29 patients with idiopathic portal hypertension to investigate the effects of an operative procedure for varices that consists of transabdominal esophageal mucosal transection , paraesophagogastric devascularization , pyloroplasty , and splenectomy . portal venous flow measured by the pulsed doppler flowmeter in 14 patients with cirrhosis and nine patients with idiopathic portal hypertension , who underwent operation 2-5 yr earlier , was significantly reduced compared with that in unoperated 49 patients with cirrhosis and 17 patients with idiopathic portal hypertension who had esophageal varices ( 410 + / - 158 versus 660 + / - 263 ml / min in cirrhosis ; 443 + / - 185 versus 912 + / - 189 ml / min in idiopathic portal hypertension ) . in nine patients ( six cirrhosis , three idiopathic portal hypertension ) , portal venous flow and portal vein pressure were measured before and after operation . in patients with cirrhosis , portal vein pressure did not change significantly postoperatively even though portal venous flow was reduced . in contrast , portal vein pressure decreased in two patients with idiopathic portal hypertension in whom portal venous flow was reduced . portal vein pressure was elevated in one patient with idiopathic portal hypertension in whom portal venous flow was increased postoperatively as a result of resection of a large gastro- and splenorenal shunt conducted additionally . 
anomalous junction of pancreaticobiliary duct without congenital choledochal cyst : a possible risk factor for gallbladder cancer . among 1586 patients subjected to endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography , an anomalous junction of the pancreaticobiliary duct ( ajpb ) was found in 24 patients ( 1.5 % ) . eighteen of the 24 had an associated congenital choledochal cyst , and six did not . four of these six patients ( 66.7 % ) had gallbladder cancer . a clinicopathological study was performed on these four and 43 such cases reported in the literature . the diagnosis of ajpb was made by direct cholangiography . median age of these 47 ( 53.5 yr ) was younger than those without ajpb . the length of the common channel ranged from 15 to 53 mm . the pancreatic-biliary type junction was present in 36 of 39 cases ( 92.3 % ) . gallstones were present in 7 of 40 ( 17.5 % ) . levels of amylase in bile were high in 10 of 11. presence of ajpb without congenital choledochal cyst may be a high risk factor in gallbladder cancer ; hence prophylactic cholecystectomy should be considered for patients with ajpb , without congenital choledochal cyst . 
colonic obstruction as the first manifestation of ovarian carcinoma . fourteen patients with colonic obstruction as the initial manifestation of a malignant ovarian tumor are described . although common in advanced ovarian tumor , bowel obstruction as the presenting feature of carcinoma of the ovary is not well recognized . clinical features were that of partial or complete large bowel obstruction , roentgenographically and pathologically involving the sigmoid colon in 12 of 14 patients . barium enema was abnormal in all 12 patients in whom it was performed . prognosis may be more favorable in large bowel obstruction as the first clinical manifestation of ovarian cancer than in obstruction occurring in previously diagnosed disease . our experience suggests that consideration of ovarian pathology is indicated in the presence of signs of large bowel obstruction in women . 
gastric emptying in patients with insulin-requiring diabetes mellitus . gastric emptying of technetium labeled liquid and solid meals were studied in a group of long-standing , insulin-requiring male diabetics to evaluate the relationship of gastroparesis to symptoms , diabetic control , and diabetic complications . control subjects and three groups of diabetics were studied : a ) no neuropathy ; b ) peripheral neuropathy ; and c ) peripheral and autonomic neuropathy . nine diabetics had gastrointestinal symptoms . gastric t1 / 2 liquid emptying was similar in all groups and in controls , but liquid gastric emptying in the first 15 min was significantly more rapid in the diabetics than controls . solid emptying was prolonged in group c patients . there was a significant correlation between t1 / 2 solid emptying and the severity of neuropathy . the eight patients with slow solid emptying had more neuropathy and gastrointestinal symptoms than the remaining 22 patients . the type and duration of diabetes , diabetic control , and frequency of retinopathy are independent of gastroparesis . these data indicate that delayed emptying of solids is common ( 27 % ) in patients with clinically detectable neuropathy and may often be asymptomatic . visceral autonomic neuropathy seems the most important underlying factor in diabetic gastroparesis . 
lack of effect of sucralfate on prednisone bioavailability . the relative bioavailability of single oral doses of prednisone with and without sucralfate administration was determined in 12 healthy male volunteers . each subject participated in a randomized three-way cross-over study consisting of the following three phases : treatment a , prednisone given alone ; treatment b , 2 days pretreatment with sucralfate with a concomitant dose of sucralfate administered with prednisone ; and treatment c , 2 days pretreatment with sucralfate with a sucralfate dose administered 2 h after the oral prednisone dose . plasma prednisolone concentrations ( active moiety of prednisone ) were determined by a specific and sensitive high-performance liquid chromatographic assay and unbound prednisolone concentrations were determined by equilibrium dialysis . bioavailability was assessed by comparing the areas under the plasma prednisolone concentration-time curves as well as peak concentrations , time to peak concentration , elimination rate constant , and half-life . no significant differences were noted in any of the treatment phases for any of the parameters except for the time of peak concentration which was slightly delayed from 1.0 + / - 0.6 to 1.7 + / - 0.9 h when sucralfate was concomitantly administered with the prednisone . thus , the data from this study indicate that sucralfate does not have a clinically significant effect on the bioavailability of orally administered prednisone . the use of these two drugs in combination does not result in an interaction requiring dosage regimen alteration . 
outpatient management of esophageal cancer with endoscopic nd : yag laser . in 50 inoperable patients with advanced malignant obstruction of the esophagus , endoscopic nd : yag laser treatment was used for palliation of dysphagia . in 30 of these patients , treatment was carried out entirely in an outpatient setting , providing more time at home and saving costs of hospitalization . most patients had received prior radiation and chemotherapy . all were unable to swallow solid food ; 16 had difficulty with liquids . palliation was achieved in 69 % allowing patients to eat a nearly normal diet . therapy was least successful in cancers involving the cervical esophagus , in cancers more than 8 cm in length , and in cancers that were primarily infiltrating or extraluminal . epidermoid carcinomas and adenocarcinomas were effectively treated , except for adenocarcinomas of the gastric cardia , which tended to be infiltrating . there were two serious but nonfatal complications , one perforation and one episode of bleeding , directly attributable to nd : yag laser therapy . an esophageal dilation prior to endoscopic nd : yag laser treatment facilitated outpatient management . 
small intestinal obstruction secondary to obturation by a garren gastric bubble . a case of small intestinal obstruction by obturation of a garren gastric bubble , not retrieved after gastroscopy , is presented . the literature is reviewed regarding both the use of and the complications inherent in such balloon devices . some specific suggestions are made to provide for effective retrieval and radiological localization and monitoring of displaced balloons . 
mastocytosis with malabsorption , myelofibrosis , and massive ascites . mastocytosis is an unusual disorder of unknown etiology characterized by an abnormal proliferation of tissue mast cells . we present a case of a young woman with systemic mastocytosis with malabsorption secondary to small bowel invasion by mast cells , myelofibrosis , and massive exudative ascites secondary to mass cell invasion of the intraabdominal lymph nodes . the patient responded favorably to a combined therapy with histamine h1 and h2 receptor antagonists and corticosteroids . we include a review of the literature . 
chronic active hepatitis and hepatic failure in the setting of idiopathic hemochromatosis . we report a case of idiopathic hemochromatosis presenting clinically , biochemically , and histopathologically with features of chronic active hepatitis . liver biopsy demonstrated excessive iron deposition as well as a striking inflammatory process . progressive deterioration of hepatic function led to death despite return of iron levels to values seen in phlebotomy-treated patients with idiopathic hemochromatosis . this case suggests that patients with idiopathic hemochromatosis are not immune to other liver disorders and demonstrates the value of serum tissue iron studies in patients with liver disease of uncertain etiology . 
thrombosed primary cervical esophageal varices causing acute respiratory distress . this is a case of thrombosed primary cervical esophageal varices causing acute respiratory distress . unlike other types of esophageal varices these lesions probably follow a benign course with only rare complications . they may arise from an anomalous hypopharyngeal venous plexus and should be easily diagnosed at endoscopic or radiographic examination . it is important to differentiate these lesions from secondary cervical esophageal varices . primary cervical esophageal varices may be managed conservatively while secondary cervical esophageal varices require management directed at the cause of superior vena caval obstruction . 
pneumatic dilatation of the achalasic esophagus requiring the aid of an endoscope . we describe a 65-yr-old man with achalasia , who had two previous heller myotomies . he had a markedly dilated , tortuous esophagus , which defeated initial attempts at pneumatic dilatation . a method was improvised in which a brown-mchardy dilator was attached by a string to a small caliber endoscope and both were successfully passed into the stomach . pneumatic dilatation was then easily performed . review of the literature and our experience with four patients suggests that pneumatic dilatation can be performed without substantial risk in patients after a failed heller myotomy . 
primary oat cell carcinoma of the esophagus . a case of primary oat cell carcinoma of the esophagus is presented . clinical , radiological , and pathological findings in our case and those reported earlier were reviewed . primary oat cell carcinoma of the esophagus should be suspected in patients with symptoms of dysphagia , radiating pain to the back with bulky mass on the esophagogram , and diffuse metastasis . 
nodular hyperplasia of the liver in primary biliary cirrhosis of early histological stages . twenty-six patients with the clinical and histologic diagnosis of primary biliary cirrhosis were reviewed . nodular hyperplasia of the liver without fibrous rims , not reported hitherto in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis , was found in several patients with early histological stages . these changes resembled " nodular regenerative hyperplasia of the liver " and were usually present as multicellular thickness in zones 1 and 2 of the hepatic lobules . such lesions were preferentially found in patients with esophageal varices , suggesting that the nodular hyperplasia may occur in relation to a disturbance of portal venous blood flow within the liver in primary biliary cirrhosis in early histological stages . 
gastric epithelioid leiomyosarcoma : a curable gastric neoplasm . this is the first case report of the preoperative diagnosis of a gastric epithelioid leiomyosarcoma by percutaneous needle biopsy . preoperative diagnosis facilitated curative surgical resection . patients may present without symptoms or may report symptoms of peptic ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding . upper gastrointestinal series is the most useful radiological tool for detecting these lesions . ultrasound and ct play a useful role in documenting the origin of these large masses , as well as their spread . endoscopy is being used with increasing frequency , but because these are submucosal lesions diagnosis cannot easily be made through the endoscope . pathologically , these tumors can be subdivided histologically into a benign epithelioid leiomyoma and two varieties of malignant epithelioid leiomyosarcoma . prognosis correlates with histological features . complete surgical resection is the treatment of choice . chemotherapy or radiotherapy have no proven efficacy in treating epithelioid leiomyosarcoma . unlike most other gastric malignancies , a favorable prognosis follows successful resection . 
a case of malignant cystic endocrine tumor of the pancreas . a malignant pancreatic endocrine tumor with a cystic appearance in a 66-yr-old woman was reported . total pancreatectomy was performed under the diagnosis of cystadenocarcinoma . the tumor was large and cystic , but the solid portion of the tumor showed histologically a ribbon-like array of small uniform cells typical for endocrine tumors . immunohistochemically , most tumor cells were immunoreactive for neuron-specific enolase , chromogranin , and leu 7-epitope . ultrastructurally , innumerable neurosecretory granules were demonstrated in the cytoplasm of most tumor cells . the patient survived for 5.5 yr after operation despite liver metastases , some of which also showed cystic appearances . 
portal hypertension in early-stage primary biliary cirrhosis : a possible explanation [ editorial ] 
a general multivariate approach to linear modeling in human genetics . the general linear structural equation model is applied to problems in human genetics where there may be more than one measured phenotype per individual . a modeling convention , termed conditional associations , is developed to extend the general linear model so that it can handle the unique problems in human genetic models that arise from the pairing up of individuals or families under assortment between mates and the assortative placement of adoptees . formulas are presented to generate expected covariance matrices for assortment or assortative placement on many variables simultaneously . it is demonstrated that all linear models in human genetics can be reduced in form to two fundamental equations . an algorithm is presented that will allow the application of these two equations to linear modeling in human genetics . 
molecular characterization of an atypical beta-thalassemia caused by a large deletion in the 5 ' beta-globin gene region . we describe a canadian family of czechoslovakian descent that came to our attention because of an hba2 percentage approximately twice that of an average case of heterozygous beta-thalassemia . this unique phenotype suggested to us the possibility of a novel genetic mechanism being responsible for their beta-thalassemia . to investigate this possibility , we mapped , cloned , and sequenced the mutant beta-globin allele . this molecular analysis demonstrated the presence of a unique 4 , 237 base pair ( bp ) deletion extending from 3.3 kilobases ( kb ) 5 ' of the beta-globin mrna cap site to approximately the middle of beta ivs-2 . this truncated beta-globin gene further extends the heterogeneity of mutations known to cause beta-thalassemia and delineates new sequences involved in nonhomologous recombination events in the beta-globin gene region . 
an autosomal dominant form of adolescent multinodular goiter . eighteen members of an extended pedigree have been found to have a form of euthyroid adolescent multinodular goiter . histological examination showed multiple adenomata with areas of epithelial hyperplasia , hemorrhage , and calcification . in two subjects there were focal areas of epithelial hyperplasia reminiscent of low-grade papillary carcinoma , but capsular and vascular invasion was not found . the pattern of inheritance appeared to be autosomal dominant , with diminished penetrance in males . although the patients were euthyroid , the likely basis for this disorder is an abnormality in thyroglobulin structure and function . 
genetic studies of low abundance human plasma proteins . iii . polymorphism of the c1r subcomponent of the first complement component . genetic polymorphism of the c1r subcomponent of human complement component c1 has been detected in normal plasma samples using the high resolving power of isoelectric focusing in 6 m urea followed by immunoblotting . there are two common alleles at the c1r structural locus that show autosomal codominant inheritance . the c1r * 1 and c1r * 2 allele frequencies in u.s. white and u.s. black blood donors are : .934 , .066 , and .899 , .101 , respectively . 
multiple pulmonary artery aneurysms . new use for magnetic resonance imaging . the first patient in whom multiple pulmonary artery aneurysms were detected by magnetic resonance imaging is described . the patient was successfully treated with surgery . 
fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the mediastinum . fine-needle aspiration is a useful technique to identify neoplasms of many sites , such as breast , thyroid , and lung . thirty-two mediastinum aspirates from 29 patients were reviewed . five aspirates yielded insufficient material . five aspirates were of benign lesions . four aspirates were suggestive of but not diagnostic of malignancy . eighteen aspirates contained malignant cells ; in 13 of these , a definite cell type was identified , which usually was metastatic lung carcinoma ; in five instances , the cell type could not be unequivocally identified . complications were minimal , two instances of pneumothorax ( 6.3 percent ) and two of hemoptysis ( 6.3 percent ) . no deaths or hemorrhage occurred . in 16 of the 29 patients ( 55 percent ) , thoracotomy was avoided because of fine-needle aspiration biopsy . it is concluded that fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the mediastinum is a safe , useful diagnostic tool . this procedure may obviate the need for thoracotomy in persons with inoperable cancer , thus lowering medical costs and length of hospital stay . 
hypercalcemia , renal failure , and death in a 42-year-old man [ clinical conference ] 
new approach to disturbances in the plasma sodium concentration . hyponatremia and hypernatremia are among the most common electrolyte disorders . since the plasma sodium level is determined by the ratio between the total quantity of effective solutes ( primarily sodium and potassium salts ) and the total body water , abnormalities in the plasma sodium level must be produced by a change in one or more of these parameters . in most patients , alterations in body water are of primary importance because the plasma sodium level is normally regulated by changing water intake and water excretion . measurement of free water excretion has traditionally been calculated by using a formula that includes the urine osmolality . however , urea is a major urinary solute but does not contribute to regulation of the plasma sodium level , since it is an ineffective osmole . as a result , urinary solute excretion is best expressed as 2 x una+k . making this important correction allows solute and water intake and excretion to be compared , thereby leading to a better understanding of both the development and correction of disturbances in the plasma sodium level . 
randomized clinical trials and common sense . 
medicine in the ' 80s . need for an integrative approach . 
agranulocytosis related to vancomycin therapy . a patient with renal failure due to goodpasture 's syndrome was treated with vancomycin . after he had received 3 g of the drug , his white blood cell count fell to a level of 200 / microliter . bone marrow biopsy disclosed severe myeloid hypoplasia . the patient subsequently recovered fully from this episode of vancomycin-induced agranulocytosis , but he eventually died of other causes . vancomycin-related leukopenia has been reported , but the severely depressed white blood cell count and myeloid hypoplasia observed in this patient have not previously been described . vancomycin must be excluded as the cause of leukopenia in any patient who is receiving this drug . 
spontaneous rupture of the stomach . a case of spontaneous rupture of the stomach associated with perforation of the diaphragm is reported . spontaneous rupture of the stomach is a rare but fatal condition . the pathophysiologic features , clinical manifestations , and treatment are discussed . 
hairy cell leukemia and mucormycosis . treatment with alpha-2 interferon . right maxillary sinus mucormycosis developed in a 45-year-old patient with hairy cell leukemia and pancytopenia . the patient recovered with surgical debridement , amphotericin therapy , and institution of alpha-2 interferon as therapy for his hairy cell leukemia . this may be the first case of the use of alpha-2-interferon therapy in a patient with documented systemic fungal infection and hairy cell leukemia and a rare example of recovery from this infection in a hematologic malignancy . 
listeria monocytogenes cerebritis , bacteremia , and cutaneous lesions complicating hairy cell leukemia . hairy cell leukemia is a lymphoreticular malignancy characterized by a chronic course and multiple defects in host defense mechanisms . infections are the major cause of morbidity and mortality in this malignancy . opportunistic infections due to pathogens normally controlled by cell-mediated immune mechanisms have been increasingly described but have not included listerial infections . this report describes a case of disseminated listeria monocytogenes infection including the uncommon manifestations of cerebritis and cutaneous lesions in a patient with hairy cell leukemia . 
familial ovarian carcinoma . clinical nuances . familial ovarian carcinoma has been recognized with increased frequency during the past decade commensurate with physician attention to family history . putative autosomal dominant inheritance of this heterogeneous problem mandates attention to both paternal and maternal lineages . a family with probable paternal transmission of breast / ovarian carcinoma is presented . one family member had findings consonant with papillary serous adenocarcinoma of ovarian origin , which may have arisen directly from extra-ovarian pelvic mesothelium . these and other clinical nuances of familial ovarian carcinoma are discussed in order to aid physicians in understanding the natural history , surveillance , and management of familial ovarian carcinoma . 
hodgkin 's disease in homosexual men . an aids-related phenomenon ? five cases of hodgkin 's disease in young homosexual men at risk for the acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) are reported . the mixed cellularity histologic subtype was present in each . two also showed features of lymphocyte depletion . four of the five patients had pathologic stage iiib or ivb disease at presentation . in the fifth , recurrent hodgkin 's disease developed in a previously irradiated field . three patients had opportunistic infections characteristic of aids . hodgkin 's disease may pursue a more fulminant course in patients at risk for aids and may itself be a manifestation of aids in this high-risk population . 
prolonged and functional survival with the asplenia syndrome . asplenia syndrome is a rare congenital complex of splenic agenesis , cardiac malformation , and malposition of the abdominal viscera . prolonged functional survival is very uncommon , with death usually caused by severe infection or congestive heart failure . a 21-year-old man with typical asplenia syndrome who is currently asymptomatic and in his third year of college is described . 
isolated vasculitis of the central nervous system in a patient with celiac disease . a 51-year-old white man with celiac disease presented with seizures unresponsive to medical therapy . investigations including brain biopsy revealed isolated vasculitis of the central nervous system . treatment with prednisone and cyclophosphamide resulted in clinical and radiographic improvement . the relationship between celiac disease and vasculitis is discussed . 
pure vasodepressor carotid sinus hypersensitivity . unusual cause of recurrent syncope . recurrent syncope in a 53-year-old man was found to be due to vasodepressor carotid sinus hypersensitivity . establishment of the diagnosis required monitoring of both the electrocardiographic changes and the blood pressure during carotid sinus massage . current therapeutic approaches to patients with symptomatic vasodepressor hypersensitivity are discussed . 
swallowing syncope : observations in the absence of conduction system or esophageal disease . a patient is described with the clinical syndrome of " swallowing syncope " who reproducibly demonstrated sinus bradycardia , a-h prolongation , and intranodal atrioventricular block in response to swallowing during electrophysiologic study . baseline electrophysiologic and esophageal manometric results were normal , as was his response to other vagal maneuvers . demand ventricular pacing alleviated his symptoms . these findings suggest that " swallowing syncope " is mediated via an esophageocardiac reflex and can occur in the absence of cardiac conduction system or esophageal disease . 
orthostatic hypotension due to quinidine and propranolol [ published erratum appears in am j med 1987 apr ; 82 ( 4 ) : 870 ] orthostatic hypotension developed in a 65-year-old man during treatment with quinidine and propranolol . quinidine reduced standing blood pressure , attenuated the valsalva response , and increased plasma norepinephrine concentrations , suggesting the presence of nonselective alpha-adrenergic blockade . the addition of propranolol inhibited the compensatory tachycardia and produced symptomatic orthostatic hypotension . physicians should be alerted to the possibility of orthostatic hypotension when the alpha blocking effects of quinidine are combined with a beta blocking agent such as propranolol . 
relationship between arterial blood pressure and plasma norepinephrine levels in a patient with neurogenic hypertension . this study examined the relationship between arterial blood pressure and plasma norepinephrine levels during 12 hours of monitored sleep in a 35-year-old man in whom neurogenic hypertension developed immediately after surgical removal of a large hemangioblastoma at the obex region of the cervical-medullary junction . plasma norepinephrine levels throughout the 12-hour sampling period correlated ( r = 0.81 , p less than 0.01 ) with mean arterial blood pressures , suggesting that sleep-related changes in blood pressure were dependent on associated changes in sympathetic nervous system activity in this patient with neurogenic hypertension . 
tracheal hamartoma [ letter ] 
white blood cell count and vancomycin [ letter ] 
epidemic dropsy : atypical presentation [ letter ] 
klebsiella pyomyositis [ letter ] 
massive propranolol overdose [ letter ] 
levels of ige and delayed type skin reactivity in hodgkin 's disease with and without eosinophilia [ letter ] 
group g streptococcal endocarditis and bacteremia [ letter ] 
pregnancy and benign rheumatoid nodules [ letter ] 
incidence and nature of neurologic problems in patients with solid tumors . the medical records of all patients admitted to the solid tumor service of the johns hopkins oncology center over a three-month period were reviewed to determine the incidence and nature of major neurologic problems on the inpatient service of a university-based comprehensive cancer center . seventy-four of 162 patients ( 46 percent ) admitted during this time had tumor invading or compressing the nervous system , pain , seizures , or alteration in mental status . the most common problems were pain ( 34 patients ) and altered mental status ( 25 patients ) . the evaluation or treatment of a neurologic problem constituted the second most common reason for admission to this inpatient oncology unit . neurologic problems will soon be the most common reason for hospital admissions in patients with disseminated cancer as a result of changes in patterns of health care delivery and improvements in systemic therapy and supportive care . 
neurologic consultations in a general hospital . spectrum of latrogenic disease . in a prospective study of 1 , 500 neurologic consultations during 1978 and 1984 within the johns hopkins hospital , iatrogenic neurologic conditions were found in 14 percent of patients . the most common antecedents were angiography , cardiac surgery , and immunosuppression . neurologists found previously unsuspected significant neurologic conditions in 27 percent of patients . determining the underlying causes of delirium posed a special diagnostic problem . the accuracy of general physicians and surgeons in the application of criteria for brain death was low . consultations for solely medical-legal reasons are increasing . these findings indicate the need for improved surveillance of neurological injury in hospitals , earlier recognition of delirium and research into its mechanisms , and additional education about criteria for brain death . 
role of the spleen in the transdiaphragmatic spread of hodgkin 's disease . results of detailed staging laparotomy for hodgkin 's disease with supradiaphragmatic presentation in 78 patients showed 28 with subdiaphragmatic involvement . all 28 patients with intra-abdominal disease had splenic involvement . on the basis of findings of this study and published series on staging laparotomy , it is proposed that the spleen is the first site of intra-abdominal disease in this group of patients , and that hodgkin 's disease spreads to the intra-abdominal lymph nodes , liver , and bone marrow from the spleen . 
acute nonlymphocytic leukemia after treatment of small cell lung cancer . from 1977 to 1982 , 377 patients with small cell lung cancer were treated at vanderbilt university medical center . all patients received combination chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin , and vincristine ( cav ) with or without methotrexate , etoposide , and / or hexamethylmelamine . thoracic and / or prophylactic cranial irradiation was administered to 159 ( 42 percent ) and 192 ( 51 percent ) patients , respectively . acute nonlymphocytic leukemia was observed in two patients at 22 and 81 months from the start of therapy . the relative risk of leukemia was 154 ( 95 percent confidence limit , 38 to 293 ) . a kaplan-meier estimate of the cumulative probability of leukemia was 1.9 + / - 1.4 percent seven years after the start of treatment . the relative risk of leukemia is significantly increased in this group of patients ( p less than 0.0001 ) . acute nonlymphocytic leukemia is a long-term complication of small cell lung cancer therapy . 
histoplasmosis in patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome . five patients with disseminated histoplasmosis are reviewed . four of five had the acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) and one was receiving steroid therapy . all were immigrants to the united states from puerto rico , the dominican republic , or south america , and none had a history of travel to regions of the united states where histoplasma is endemic . histoplasma complement fixation titers to mycelial antigen were not demonstrable in three of three patients in whom they were measured . of the four patients with aids , histoplasma capsulatum was isolated from bone marrow aspirates in two patients and from lymph node and liver biopsy specimens in one patient each . one of the bone marrow specimens showed organisms on gomori-methenamine silver stain . in the other three cases , results of staining were falsely negative and diagnosis awaited culture results weeks later . amphotericin b therapy resulted in rapid clinical improvement in the three patients that were treated . intravenous therapy was followed by treatment with oral ketoconazole . follow-up has not been long enough to determine the ultimate efficacy of ketoconazole . disseminated histoplasmosis should be considered in all patients from the caribbean or south america with aids or who are receiving immunosuppressive therapy . 
lack of association between bacteriuria and symptoms in the elderly . in a study of bacteriuria in elderly ( mean age 85 years , range 69 to 101 ) , mostly middle- and upper-class jewish subjects , attempts were made to determine if bacteriuria without dysuria is otherwise asymptomatic . seventy-two subjects ( 59 women and 13 men ) without dysuria were questioned about other urinary symptoms ( incontinence , frequency , urgency , suprapubic pain , flank pain , fever ) and symptoms indicating a lack of well-being ( anorexia , difficulty in falling asleep , difficulty in staying asleep , fatigue , malaise , weakness ) when they were with and without bacteriuria . twenty-two subjects had bacteriuria that resolved spontaneously ; bacteriuria subsequently developed in 24 nonbacteriuric subjects ; and 26 subjects had bacteriuria that resolved with antimicrobial therapy . subjects occasionally reported urinary symptoms ( especially incontinence ) and commonly reported symptoms indicating a lack of well-being when they were with and / or without bacteriuria . however , no differences in symptoms were found when bacteriuric subjects were compared with themselves when they were nonbacteriuric . thus , bacteriuria without dysuria in the elderly appears to be asymptomatic . 
serum , lymphocyte , and erythrocyte potassium , magnesium , and calcium concentrations and their relation to tachyarrhythmias in patients with acute myocardial infarction . serum , lymphocyte , and erythrocyte potassium , magnesium , and calcium levels were measured in 215 patients during the five days following acute myocardial infarction . serum potassium fell from 4.25 + / - 0.05 to 4.08 + / - 0.06 mmol / liter ( p less than 0.001 ) , magnesium from 0.93 + / - 0.01 to 0.85 + / - 0.01 mmol / liter ( p less than 0.001 ) , and calcium from 2.4 + / - 0.02 to 2.2 + / - 0.08 mmol / liter ( p less than 0.001 ) . lymphocyte potassium increased from 18.1 + / - 1.5 to 51.6 + / - 4.3 pmol / 100 cells ( p less than 0.001 ) and magnesium from 2.0 + / - 0.1 to 8.2 + / - 0.8 pmol / 100 cells ( p less than 0.001 ) , whereas calcium decreased from 2.9 + / - 0.27 to 1.4 + / - 0.25 pmol / 100 cells ( p less than 0.001 ) . erythrocyte cations remained constant . there was a larger increase in lymphocyte potassium in patients with tachyarrhythmias than in patients without ( 70.4 and 46.9 pmol / 100 cells , respectively , p less than 0.001 ) , whereas the presence of a high lymphocyte magnesium level was associated with a significant decrease in the development of tachyarrhythmias , despite high potassium concentrations . it is suggested that lymphocyte cation concentrations mirror myocardial interstitial concentrations and that a high interstitial magnesium level has a protective effect on the increased cell excitability due to , and despite , a high interstitial potassium level . 
role of calcium channel blockers in the management of hypertension ; and calcium channel blockers : their evolving role in the management of hypertension . proceedings of two symposiums . november 10 , 1985 , washington , d.c. ; and march 6-8 , 1986 , key biscayne , florida . 
strategies in antihypertensive therapy : implications of the kidney . because we so rarely know the cause of hypertension , antihypertensive therapy remains empiric . however , certain principles of treatment are emerging ; one of these concerns the critical role of the kidney in antihypertensive therapy . whether or not the kidney is primarily responsible for hypertension in a patient , it is the patient 's renal response to treatment that determines , to a major degree , an agent 's efficacy . vasodilators have been a conceptually attractive approach to the treatment of high blood pressure , because they decrease total peripheral resistance , which is considered to be the mechanism responsible for this condition in most patients . nonspecific vasodilators exert a series of actions on the kidney--including profound sodium retention and reactive renin release--that limits therapeutic response . for reasons that are not yet clear , but are apparently related to specific action on calcium entry into vascular smooth muscle , endocrine function , and renal hemodynamics , calcium channel blocking agents , such as nifedipine , have an advantage in the treatment of hypertension . they cause little or no sodium retention ; thus , the addition of a diuretic agent is not required . in fact , there is evidence that sodium loading in certain patients may potentiate the antihypertensive efficacy of these drugs . the renin-angiotensin system seems to be activated to a somewhat lesser degree by calcium channel blocking agents than it is by nonspecific vasodilators ; in addition , these agents interfere with the actions of angiotensin on aldosterone release . moreover , their dilator action on the renal blood supply favors sodium excretion . nifedipine either has no effect on the renal blood supply or induces an increase in renal blood flow and maintains glomerular filtration rate , both of which combine to support the ensuing natriuresis . 
kinetics and dynamics of nifedipine after oral and sublingual doses . nifedipine is frequently administered by the sublingual route to provide rapid onset of intense effect , especially in patients in whom urgent reduction of elevated blood pressure is indicated . previously available data , however , suggest that peak levels of nifedipine are higher and occur earlier when the drug is administered orally . results of pharmacodynamic studies show that maximal hypotensive effects occur between 30 and 60 minutes after administration by either route , but that such effects are often achieved earlier when the drug is given orally . recent work implies that the absorption of nifedipine through the buccal mucosa is poor , if it occurs at all , and that the appearance of nifedipine in plasma requires delivery of the drug to the stomach for active absorption . the small time lag in absorption that may be attributed to the dissolution of the nifedipine capsule may be obviated by biting through the capsule and swallowing the contents ; this bite-and-swallow approach to dosing provides the most rapid rise in plasma nifedipine concentrations , and produces peak levels well above those achieved with sublingual administration . 
calcium antagonists and the second drug for hypertensive therapy . calcium antagonist monotherapy is more effective in older patients and in those with low plasma renin activity , whereas beta blockers control blood pressure better in younger patients and in those with normal or high renin activity . monotherapy with a calcium antagonist has been shown to result in the reduction of diastolic blood pressure to equal to or less than 95 mm hg in more than 80 percent of patients with essential hypertension . we investigated the antihypertensive efficacy of verapamil plus an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and nifedipine plus a beta blocker in 24 patients ( aged 41 to 68 ) with moderate to severe hypertension in whom monotherapy with a calcium antagonist had been ineffective . blood pressure recorded in patients during the placebo period was 175 + / - 3 / 111 + / - 2 mm hg ( mean + / - sem ) . twelve patients received monotherapy with nifedipine ( 50.0 + / - 5.2 mg per day ) and 12 others received verapamil ( 460 + / - 20 mg per day ) ; neither treatment resulted in the reduction of diastolic blood pressure to less than 90 mm hg . however , this goal was achieved when atenolol ( 89.5 + / - 25.7 mg per day ) was added to the regimen of patients receiving nifedipine and enalapril ( 29.5 + / - 5.0 mg per day ) was added to the regimen of those receiving verapamil ; resultant blood pressures were 127 + / - 3 / 83 + / - 2 mm hg and 137 + / - 5 / 85 + / - 1 mm hg , respectively . it is suggested that in patients in whom hypertension is inadequately controlled by calcium antagonist monotherapy , counter-regulatory mechanisms can be blocked by the addition of a beta blocker or an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor to the calcium antagonist regimen , resulting in greatly improved , simple , well-tolerated , and safe control of blood pressure . 
role of calcium channel blockade in chronic hypertension following successful management of hypertensive emergency . nifedipine is known to reduce blood pressure for both short- and long-term periods . we have shown that nifedipine can be given safely for a short-term period to patients with severe hypertension in an outpatient setting , that its efficacy can be retained with long-term follow-up therapy , and that nifedipine is safe in the presence of cardiomegaly , acting without precipitating a decrease in ejection fraction when used for short-term blood pressure reduction . the acute hypotensive effect of sublingual nifedipine can predict the efficacy of subsequent follow-up therapy with oral nifedipine , so that there is a sustained long-term hypotensive effect . 
neuroendocrine tumors . a european view . a center in belfast , northern ireland , has established a register for tumors of the gastroenteropancreatic endocrine system . carcinoid tumors occur most frequently . of the non-carcinoid tumors , insulinomas , gastrinomas , and unknown types have the highest incidence , with other types being extremely rare . the potentially remediable nature of the tumors is stressed , and frequently a good quality of life can be experienced even in the presence of metastatic disease . the syndromes are probably underdiagnosed as they present with clinical features for which there are more common explanations , and appropriate diagnostic methods are therefore not used . the management of the syndromes is reviewed with particular emphasis on the treatment of patients with inoperable disease . histamine ( h2 ) -receptor antagonist therapy has made an impact in zollinger-ellison syndrome , and streptozotocin and somatostatin analogues can control tumor growth and endocrine syndromes , respectively . 
role of neuropeptides and serotonin in the diagnosis of carcinoid tumors . the plasma concentrations of neuropeptides ( neurotensin , substance p , motilin , somatostatin , vasoactive intestinal peptide and gastrin-releasing peptide ) , the urinary excretion of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and serotonin , and the platelet concentration of serotonin were compared in 133 patients who could be assigned to one of four groups . these groups were as follows : carcinoid tumors present ; history of carcinoid tumors ; miscellaneous tumors present ; and non-tumor diseases . the test with the most sensitivity ( i.e. , patients with carcinoid tumors labeled positive ) and the test with the most specificity ( i.e. , patients without carcinoid tumors labeled negative ) for the presence of carcinoid tumors was determined . urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid excretion had a sensitivity of 73 percent and a specificity of 100 percent ; the plasma concentration of substance p had a sensitivity of 32 percent and a specificity of 85 percent ; and the plasma concentration of neurotensin had a sensitivity of 41 percent and a specificity of 60 percent . even when basal plasma concentrations of substance p and neurotensin were elevated , there was no additional increase of these neuropeptides prior to ethanol-induced facial flushing . although measurements of plasma neuropeptide levels may be helpful in occasional patients with carcinoid tumors , it is concluded that measurements of serotonin overproduction--such as 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid excretion--are of more general value . 
somatostatin : a peptide with unexpected physiologic activities . 
contemporary considerations in the treatment of hypertension . cost , efficacy , and preference . proceedings of a symposium . september 14 , 1986 , washington , d.c. 
preferences and practices of americans and their physicians in antihypertensive therapy . in the summer of 1986 , the gallup organization conducted two surveys , one of the physicians who treat hypertension and the other of patients who were receiving medications for hypertension . objectives were to assess current patterns of treatment and the impact of cost on treatment for hypertension . seventy percent of the patients report being prescribed medication immediately following the diagnosis of hypertension . diuretics are the most frequently prescribed initial medication ( 76 percent of physicians ) , followed by beta blockers ( 44 percent of physicians ) . physicians report recent trends , however , towards more use of beta blockers and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and less use of diuretics . only 59 percent of patients have insurance that covers medication , and about one in four patients report that paying for medications or physicians ' fees is " very much " or " somewhat " of a problem . the costs of care are of concern to physicians as well as to patients . 
the changing health care environment . in 1985 , the rate of growth of national health expenditures was more than twice the overall rate of growth in prices in the united states , while the percentage of health expenditures relative to the gross national product reached a record high of 10.7 percent . there have been almost no changes in the fraction of direct patient payments for medical care since 1980 , or in the fraction paid by third parties or the government . consequently , cost increases in the gross price of medical care are being transferred directly to the patient population . the expense associated with medical treatment and the availability of managed care systems ( health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations , among others ) have contributed to the increasing cost consciousness of patient and physician alike . one of the areas in which the spiralling costs of medical care are most deeply felt is in the treatment of hypertension . the direct costs for treating this condition , which affects more than 25 percent of the american population , exceed $ 8 billion annually . furthermore , hypertension is a chronic condition in which the cost of treatment is continuously apparent to the patient . moderate and severe hypertension is more likely to affect elderly and black patients , the people who are least able to pay for therapy . difficulty in paying for therapy is becoming an increasingly important problem due to the trend among physicians to prescribe newer and more expensive antihypertensive drugs instead of the more commonly used diuretics and beta blockers . due to the cost-conscious attitude of patients , the physician who chooses the more expensive drugs may run the risk of losing patronage among middle- and upper-income patients . in the case of lower-income patients , prescribing expensive drugs may result in noncompliance . in order to guard against incursions by managed care systems and ensure the best care for low-income patients , physicians must assume a cost-conscious attitude toward the treatment of hypertension . 
stepped care and profiled care in the treatment of hypertension : considerations for black americans . the stepped-care approach to the treatment of hypertension has proved to be effective in helping control hypertension and in reducing morbidity and mortality associated with hypertension and related cardiovascular disease . nevertheless , modifications to the stepped-care approach can provide more effective care for certain patient subgroups . by applying the best principles of stepped care to a more individualized methodology , a " profiled-care " approach to treating hypertension has been made available . profiled care may prove particularly valuable in treating hypertensive patients in black urban communities where all forms of hypertension are disproportionally represented because of various physical , psychosocial , and socioeconomic factors . along with efforts by the government and private sectors to eliminate barriers to effective hypertension control in poor black communities , profiled care can help achieve control equal to that achieved in more affluent communities . 
opportunities for improving the cost-effectiveness of antihypertensive treatment . hypertension is an extremely important public health problem , both medically and economically . the cost burden of treatment may significantly compromise care for the individual patient , while in aggregate the direct costs of antihypertensive treatment in the united states approach $ 8 billion a year . improved insurance coverage and efforts to control the costs of antihypertensive treatment are needed . efforts to reduce the costs of care , with minimal or no reduction in its quality , should focus on the following : limiting treatment to patients with sustained diastolic hypertension ; improving the efficiency of the delivery process ; and emphasizing " low-cost prescribing strategies . " the uncertainty that remains over the risk-benefit ratio of pharmacologic treatment for patients with very mild hypertension ( 90 to 94 mm hg diastolic ) raises additional questions . even if treatment of mild hypertension is effective , it is without doubt less cost-effective than treatment of moderate and severe hypertension . is this cost worthwhile ? such trade-offs of cost and benefits will increasingly have to be confronted in the face of limited health care resources . 
serum estradiol and coronary artery disease . serum estradiol levels were measured in 300 men undergoing coronary angiography . among these men , there were no significant differences in the serum estradiol levels between patients with ( mean , 26.4 pg / ml ) and those without ( mean , 30.9 pg / ml ) angiographically confirmed coronary artery disease . there were no significant differences in any of the established coronary risk factors when patients were subdivided according to the presence or absence of coronary artery disease or according to the extent of disease . in addition , no significant correlation was noted between mean serum estradiol levels and the extent of coronary artery disease as classified by the number of obstructed coronary vessels . a matched-pairs analysis was carried out in which patients who had normal coronary arteries were matched with those who had coronary artery disease on the basis of age , cigarette smoking , prior history of myocardial infarction , and body mass index . the mean serum estradiol level in the patients with coronary artery disease was 28.7 pg / ml , and the mean estradiol level was 31.4 pg / ml for the matched patients with normal coronary arteries . in addition , when serial ( three ) estradiol determinations were carried out in 100 patients , no association was observed between degree of estradiol variability and the occurrence and / or extent of coronary artery disease . the results of this observational study fail to support an association between serum estradiol levels and the presence or degree of coronary artery disease in men as documented by coronary angiography . 
underwriting medical failures [ editorial ] 
physician-scientists and scientific physicians . resolving the humanism-science dichotomy . 
disparate hemodynamic responses to mental challenge after antihypertensive therapy with beta blockers and calcium entry blockers . the hemodynamic response to mental challenge was studied in 40 male outpatients with mild essential hypertension . the patients were treated randomly either with a beta adrenoreceptor blocker ( oxprenolol ) or with a calcium entry blocker ( nitrendipine ) . cardiovascular reactivity was evaluated with two different mental arithmetic tasks before and six months after treatment by continuously measuring systolic and diastolic pressure ( ultrasonic doppler device ) , heart rate ( electrocardiography ) , and stoke volume ( impedance cardiography ) . patients in both treatment groups had equal decreases in arterial pressure and the same pressures at rest . in patients receiving calcium entry blockers , mental challenge provoked an increase in stroke volume and a decrease in total peripheral resistance similar to results in the pretreatment phase . in contrast , beta adrenoreceptor blockade reversed the hemodynamic response pattern to a distinct decrease in stroke volume ( p less than or equal to 0.05 ) and an increase in total peripheral resistance ( p less than or equal to 0.05 ) . in addition , an attenuated heart rate response ( p less than or equal to 0.01 ) and a larger increase in diastolic pressure ( p less than or equal to 0.01 ) were found in the beta blocker group compared with the calcium entry blocker group . although beta blockers and calcium blockers produce equal decreases in arterial pressure , beta blockers evoke an abnormal hemodynamic response to mental challenge , whereas calcium entry blockers preserve the physiologic reactivity pattern of the untreated state . 
fate of a ferrous sulfate prescription . prescriptions for ferrous sulfate , 300 mg , were filled with eight different preparations by 15 pharmacies . only three types of pills had a reasonably rapid dissolution time in acid media and these were all obtained from university-associated pharmacies . some form of " slow release " or " enteric coat " feature was present in the pills and capsule supplied by private pharmacies and the veterans administration hospital pharmacy . adding the phrase " not enteric-coated " to the prescription effected no change in the type of pill supplied . prices were highly variable , even for the same preparation , and although all generic pills were cheaper than brand-name pills , the " supermarket " type pharmacies charged as much or more for the pills as individually owned pharmacies . 
septicemia , rash , and pulmonary infiltrates secondary to corynebacterium group jk infection . this report describes a leukemic patient undergoing induction therapy in whom a corynebacterium jk infection developed while he was leukopenic . the clinical triad of perirectal inflammation , skin lesions , and interstitial lung infiltrates , which has not previously been reported , is discussed . characteristics of the organism and postulated routes of infection as well as treatment are explored . 
chronic consumptive coagulopathy due to intracardiac thrombus . a patient with a consumptive coagulopathy of 11 months ' duration that was due to a large left atrial mural thrombus is described . bleeding occurred only with the hemostatic challenge of surgery . heparin was used perioperatively to facilitate two surgical procedures . the coagulopathy was reversed by removal of the thrombus . 
quinidine-induced reactive lymphadenopathy . this report describes a patient who presented with extensive inguinal lymphadenopathy while taking quinidine for the treatment of arrhythmias . an excisional lymph node biopsy specimen demonstrated atypical , reactive , follicular hyperplasia . immunologic assessment utilizing 20 monoclonal antibodies indicated a reactive process with follicles shown to be polyclonal b cell . the patient 's adenopathy resolved within one month of discontinuation of quinidine and he remains well 15 months later . the histologic and immunologic findings as well as the clinical response are typical for a drug-induced reactive lymphadenopathy . 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome presenting as bone marrow and mediastinal cryptococcosis . disseminated cryptococcosis developed as the first manifestation of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome in a previously healthy haitian man . following presentation with a febrile illness that included massive mediastinal and peripheral lymphadenopathy , the patient died of overwhelming pulmonary , visceral , and meningeal cryptococcosis . 
viral particles in the conjunctiva of a patient with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome . conjunctival biopsy from a 39-year-old man with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome revealed the presence of herpes virus particles by electron microscopy . the finding of herpes virus particles in the conjunctiva may be of prognostic significance in documenting the presence of systemic viral infection . 
fatal water intoxication , schizophrenia , and diuretic therapy for systemic hypertension . clinical and morphologic findings are described in a 37-year-old hypertensive man with chronic schizophrenia who had two well-documented episodes of water intoxication . the use of diuretics for control of systemic hypertension in the setting of chronic schizophrenia appears ill-advised . 
cervical cord compression due to extension of a papillary thyroid carcinoma . a 76-year-old man with a long-standing neck mass presented with the acute onset of paraplegia . computed tomographic scanning of the neck revealed direct involvement of the mass with several cervical vertebral bodies and extension into the spinal canal . biopsy of the mass demonstrated well-differentiated papillary thyroid carcinoma . he received external radiation to the lesion but died shortly thereafter . this is the first report of cervical cord compression due to extension of a papillary thyroid carcinoma . 
successful treatment of autoimmune hemolytic anemia in common variable immunodeficiency with high-dose intravenous gamma globulin . a patient with common variable immunodeficiency and autoimmune hemolytic anemia was given high-dose ( 450 mg / kg ) intravenous gamma globulin ( sandoglobulin ) for five days , followed by single doses of 100 to 200 mg / kg at four-week intervals or whenever the hemoglobin level and hematocrit fell or the reticulocyte count increased . this treatment was accompanied by a stabilization of hematopoietic parameters and reversal of coombs ' positivity , which have been sustained for 34 months . the use of high-dose gamma globulin for autoimmune hemolytic anemia can eliminate the need for other therapeutic modalities that may be detrimental to an immunocompromised host . 
infective endocarditis caused by neisseria flavescens . neisseria flavescens is a rare cause of human disease . this is the first reported case of endocarditis caused by n . flavescens . the organism produced beta-lactamase , and penicillin therapy failed to cure the infection . therapy with cefotaxime , to which the organism was highly sensitive , led to a complete and uneventful recovery . 
infective endocarditis of a bicuspid aortic valve caused by hansenula anomala . infective endocarditis due to hansenula anomala developed on a bicuspid aortic valve in a 40-year-old man . h . anomala , an ascomycetous yeast , may be a member of the normal flora of the throat and alimentary tract in humans but has not been previously known to be pathogenic in humans . a past history of intravenous drug use may have contributed to the development of disease in this patient . 
peripheral neuropathy as a component of the neuroleptic malignant syndrome . the neuroleptic malignant syndrome , an idiosyncratic reaction to antipsychotic medication , is defined by the tetrad of autonomic dysfunction , rigidity , fever , and altered mental status . two patients in whom this syndrome developed acquired severe peripheral neuropathies during the course of their illness . this demyelinative polyneuropathy has not been reported previously as occurring in the neuroleptic malignant syndrome . 
rebound hypertension after discontinuation of transdermal clonidine therapy [ published erratum appears in am j med 1987 apr ; 82 ( 4 ) : 869 ] three ( and possibly all four ) elderly hypertensive patients who were followed sequentially after discontinuation of transdermal clonidine monotherapy manifested a rapid rise in blood pressure to levels above control ( pre- and post-therapy ) readings . no signs of an " overshoot " in plasma norepinephrine levels or symptoms of beta-adrenergic overactivity were seen . such rebound hypertension suggests hypersensitivity to alpha-adrenergic receptor stimulation and could pose a heretofore unreported potential hazard to elderly or otherwise compromised patients who discontinue transdermal clonidine therapy . 
painful bone end sclerosis . variant of renal osteodystrophy simulating osteonecrosis . painless sclerotic change in bone ends occurring as a manifestation of renal osteodystrophy has been reported in two previous cases . the sclerotic change can , however , be accompanied by nonspecific periarticular pain . radiologic changes in " bone ends " may mimic osteonecrosis . nuclear bone scanning may show increased radionuclide uptake early in both conditions but late uptake may be less in " bone end sclerosis . " the " rugger jersey " spine occurring in the usual osteosclerosis of renal osteodystrophy has been consistently absent in this variant . osteonecrosis should be excluded in making the diagnosis of " bone end sclerosis . " 
hemophilus parainfluenzae prostatitis in a homosexual man with chronic lymphadenopathy syndrome and htlv-iii infection . hemophilus parainfluenzae , a common upper respiratory tract pathogen , has been reported to cause pharyngitis , epiglottitis , otitis media , conjunctivitis , and pneumonia . rarely h . parainfluenzae infects the urinary tract , and is believed not to have been previously reported as a cause of prostatitis . a case of h . parainfluenzae in a young homosexual man infected with htlv-iii and chronic lymphadenopathy is described . common clinical syndromes such as prostatitis may be associated with unusual pathogens in persons immunodeficient due to htlv-iii infection . 
lymphocyte responses in systemic lupus erythematosus in pregnancy . there is a high incidence of pregnancy loss in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) . this may be due to clinically undetectable exacerbations of the disease . two case reports are presented in which the patients ' lymphocyte responses were assessed throughout pregnancy . the results obtained suggest that monitoring lymphocyte responses may be a useful indicator of disease activity in pregnancy . 
germ cell tumors and leukemia [ letter ] 
does marijuana smoking reduce carbon monoxide diffusing capacity ? [ letter ] 
comparison of physicians ' decisions regarding estrogen replacement therapy for menopausal women and decisions derived from a decision analytic model [ letter ] 
second case of sarcoid addison 's disease [ letter ] 
management of myelodysplastic syndromes [ letter ] 
temporal arteritis without an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate [ letter ] 
group g streptococcal endocarditis and bacteremia [ letter ] 
primary adrenocortical nodular dysplasia , a distinct subtype of cushing 's syndrome [ letter ] 
primary sclerosing cholangitis in histiocytosis x [ letter ] 
